Reviewer 1 Report
Tobari and colleagues studied the CNV
burden in patients with cervical cancer from Mexican American
ancestry. They found that the burden of deletions in these patients
is much higher than expected, as compared with CNV burden in HapMap
populations. They observed that their sample is enriched in CNV
variants in pathways relevant to the phenotype like endometrial
cancer and  estrogen signaling pathway. I think that these finding
are indeed intriguing and deserve to be pursued in a larger study.
However, I think that the manuscript needs some substantial revisions
before it can be published.

Major comments:

1-My main issue is with the way the
results are presented. The authors claim that they observed
statistical differences between  case and reference groups yet they
do not preform a statistical test, nor give any p-value.  Even if
they performed a test, important questions remain on the selection of
the reference.  The ancestry of HapMap is not latino so therefore any
test between cases and references will be confounded by ancestry.
The PCA they show is probably capturing those differences instead of
real differences given by disease status and, by the way, I question
the usefulness of this PCA. My suggestion is to offer a better
background for these results by trying to answer two main questions:
1) is the deletion burden observed really exceptional in a population
sample of similar ancestry? To answer this question, I would refer to
the 1000 genomes data where there are Mexicans, Colombians, Puerto
Ricans and Peruvians. There must be available CNV estimations for
these ancestries. If you find good estimates then perhaps a
statistical tests with those as your control group would be more
believable. 2) is the deletion burden observed similar to those for
other cancers? Then again there must be estimates of deletion burden
for different types of cancers from TCGA  studies. Please cite those.

2- The only real statistical inference
they show is on the pathway analysis yet no mention is made on the
abstract. I suggest bringing this result up to the surface and making
it more relevant even from the abstract. You can refer to it as
methodological alternative, in the introduction, for the limited
number of cases and lack of control group; issues that must be tackle
in a larger study.

Minor comments:

1-I missed a definition of the sample's
ancestry. In the title it refers to Mexican American but in the rest
of the manuscript it is treated as a latino population. Note that
there are differences in admixture in the latino population depending
of their country of origin. Studies on the 1000 genomes show
differences between Puerto Ricans, Colombians, Mexicans and
Peruvians. Therefore, if the authors can state that their sample is essentially
Mexican that would be more informative and precise. I would then
limit the use of latino. However if the ancestry is only self
reported as latino, then I would write latino in the title and
mention the issue of genetic variability between latinos in the
discussion.

2-Abstract Line 23: should read Latino
Populations

3-Figure 1: I cannot see the supposed
deletions marked in green

4-Table 2b:  Please remove the % sign
in some of the table cells, for instance  in Reference (Deletion,
10-100kb).

