Reviewer 3 Report
The manuscript is an interesting work related to a potential new therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by using TTFields in combination with a TKI (Sorafenib). However, the limited experimental design and paucity of strong data ask for more experiments to proof the feasibility of this combination for treating HCC
In vitro experiments sub-section in Methods sections lacks many experimental details (e.g., type of plate/flask, plating overnight or not before experiment, number of plated cells). A very important missing is not showing the actual number of rats included in the final analyses (the ones who successfully received therapy for more than 18 hours/day). This must be added.
What is puzzling in this investigation is showing functional data using two human cell lines and in vivo data using rat cells. While I do not know if the authors have the technology to perform TTFileds in mice, where for sure they should have done xenograft models with the two human cell lines, why the rat cell line was not studied in vitro using the same experimental strategies as for human cells. This must be done and included for a better understanding of TTFieldds activity from in vitro to in vivo data. What are the p53 status and the apoptosis signaling pathway function in N1S1 cells? Maybe the cytotoxicity data will reveal a different better frequency.
Another puzzling experiment is the schedule for the in vivo work. Since the authors missed to add Figure 4A for timeline, based on Methods section the rats were treated for 5 days with TTFields and or sorafenib and a day later the rays were sacrificed. While a short “acute” follow-up is welcome the most important experiment should allow the follow-up for much more days to indeed observe the effect of TTFields added to sorafenib. I could not find an explanation for not including a long term follow-up. In my opinion, this is a key therapeutically experiment which must be done and included in the study.
There is no explanation why the most effective dose was 150 kHz and higher does actually decreases the killing. Can this dose observed in vitro on only tumor cells be translated to in vivo work where the tumor microenvironment is total different?
Why the in vitro experiment was performed for 72 hours and in in vivo for 120 hours?
Any explanation for why not using cloroquine in vivo to integrate better the in vitro data.
The authors claim that cytotoxicity was measured “by cell counting using iCyt EC800 (Sony Biotechnology) 123 flow cytometer, and expressed as a percentage relative to the control.” Does this imply that they counted the live cells and plotted the final data as percentage of untreated controls (as figure 1 suggests). However, is this a real cytotoxicity or a cell growth inhibition? Did they measure the adherent cells after trypsinization. Were the cells from supernatant counted (where are probably the majority of dead cells)? There is a big difference between a therapy which kills vs a therapy which induces a cellular arrest.
Since sorafenib acts also on angiogenesis, did the authors investigate if TTFields may interfere with anti-angiogenic effect sorafenib-mediated? Also, is there any evidence that TTF may prevent the pretty common resistance to sorafenib observed in clinic? Moreover, there is a discrepancy between the fold changes in tumor weight vs. volume in the combination group vs. untreated group. Did the authors check changes in blood vessels density. Were the mice perfused before collecting the tumors?
Was Mycoplasma testing done routinely? Were the cells checked also for authenticity?
Is there any explanation why the combination of TTFields and sorafenib did not induce a significant level of autophagy as compared to untreated animals which invalid the initial hypothesis that “concomitant application of sorafenib and TTFields may increase stress levels enough to tilt autophagy towards the cell death pathway”.
The statement “TTFields concomitant with sorafenib induced a significant increase in apoptosis’ in the abstract section is overstated. When compared with sorafenib alone there is practically no difference. Moreover, TTFields failed to increases apoptosis when added to sorafenib and compared to sorafenib alone in one out of two human cells line investigated
Finally, adding to all the above questions, I found a very weak Discussion section which must be extended. Moreover, in the Discussion section, the authors concluded that “TTFields display efficacy for treatment of HCC in vitro and in vivo, with an optimal frequency of 150 kHz”. This is not a correct statement. While for in vitro data, the authors have data, for in vivo they used only one frequency of 150 Hz. At least one different dose should have been studied for comparison since this is a completely different tumor environment than the in vitro one.
