Reviewer 4 Report
In general, the manuscript is well written and provides novel and interesting data illustrating the possibility to enhance the efficacy of sorafenib in the therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This might be achieved by using the combination of so-called Tumor Treating fields (TTFields) with targeted drug,
I have the following suggestions about this manuscript:
1) The authors demonstrate the efficacy of TTFields in vivo even when used as monotherapy. As shown in the Figure 4 C and D, TTFields were found less effective in terms of reducing the tumors volume and weight  when compared with sorafenib. However, no differences in expression of LC3  marker  were observed  between these groups (treated with TTFields or with sorafenib)(as shown in Figure 4D). Similarly, low evidence of apoptosis (expression of cleaved PARP) was found in these groups, as shown in Figure 4F. What is the mechanism illustrating higher efficiency of sorafenib against HCC?
2) Despite the expression of cleaved PARP was very low in the tumors treated with TTFields or sorafenib alone ( as shown in IHC-images in Figure 4F), the authors declare about ~ 20% of positive cells, as show in the graphs below IHC-staining. Similar, the graphs illustrating the LC3 expression are not in a proper fit with the images shown in Figure 4D.
3) It will be much better to provide the data to explain the mechanisms illustrating why the monotherapy of TTFields or sorafenin induced autophagy, whereas the tumors treated with combination  developed the substantial apoptotic death of tumor cells.
4) Since Annexin V/7-ADD data was not convincing and the authors observed the minor increase of apoptotic cells after HCC cells were treated with combination of TTFields and sorafenib ( when compared to the cells treated with TTFiealds and sorafenib alone), I suggest to run the WBs to examine the expression of  the cleaved forms of PARP and caspase-3 ( for both HCC cell lines). This might be helpful and make the in vitro data more relavant with the data shown in vivo.
Minor:
1) Figure 4A is missing.
2) the different HCC cell lines were used for in vitro and in vivo experiments, therfore making difficult to compare these data.
