Author Response
Response to Reviewer 1 Comments
I would like to thank the authors for taking all my comments into full consideration. After reviewing their revised manuscript, I felt that their responses were on-point and addressed my earlier thoughts. I also appreciated the level of detail they provided for responses to #10 and #12. Figure 1, in particular, is now much easier to read and extract relevant information from in the graphical plot. In general, I felt that there was a significant improvement to their work. There were two very minor points that I came across, which they may want to reconsider before proceeding with their article. These are not significant remarks, but nonetheless, might provide further improvements and clarity:
Point 1: For their response to comment #6, while I generally agreed with the authors, I felt that it didn’t quite address what I tried to originally convey. POE scales do not likely target biophilic elements in architectural designs directly, since a direct question (e.g., how satisfied are you with the biophilic features) may not accurately depict every beneficial nuance they offer (e.g., psychological recovery). Instead, studies may elect to use, for example, other relatable scales, which may not have originally been designed for POE surveys (e.g., Mayer’s connectedness to nature scale) to help measure them. My generally feeling is that scales, from other domains (i.e., outside of POE studies) have been adopted for this reason, and a short sentence explaining the rationale supporting the lack of scales for biophilic design could be provided to briefly mentioned this.
Response 1: Thank you for your comment. In this revised version, we further explain the lack of scales for biophilic design evaluation. Please find the revised sentences as below:
Revision in Page 3 Line 122-128:
“Actually, these are standard research methods of investigative POE; nevertheless, there are no existing POE scales that focus on biophilic design in the workplace. According to the research objectives of this study (i.e., evaluate the subjective health impacts of biophilic design in workplace), we need to refer the well-developed scales from other disciplinary (e.g., Environmental Psychology). And finally, a scale that integrated health evaluation and building environment evaluation (i.e., POE) is developed for investigation.”

Point 2: In consideration to their response #8, I understood and agreed with why half the seven of the 14 papers were discarded, but it did not provide much insight into why the Patterns of Biophilic
Design was still used. A more useful example, which may have elucidated this more, was whether: are there too few frameworks available, and/or no others could have been used. If this was the case, perhaps this could be succinctly mentioned.
Response 2: Thank you for your suggestions. In the revised version, sentences are added to further explain that there are too few framework available, and these two frameworks are the mainstream biophilic design frameworks that are widely applied in the practical biophilic design projects.

Revision in Page 3 Line 122-128:
“The 24 Biophilic Design Attributes and the 14 Patterns of Biophilic Design are the two mainstream biophilic design which are widely applied in the practical biophilic design projects. Hence, these two frameworks are the most suitable to be selected as the basis of this experiment.”


