Reviewer 1 Report
This manuscript presents the results for survey studies carried out in two office buildings in Singapore and China. The method used POE evaluations to determine the impacts of biophilic design on self-reported occupant health and wellbeing, showing possible causal effects as well as some moderating influences across demographics variables. Biophilic design is certainty an area worthy of interest, and the authors’ endeavours along this research line were appreciated and were something, I felt, contributes the knowledge in this domain.
Upon reviewing this manuscript, there were a few areas that I felt could be improved. Firstly, the definitions given to the parameters for biophilic design “cross-over” with those found for indoor environment quality (comment #9). While there is likely some share attributes (e.g. natural light), I felt this aspect of paper could confuse readers not overly familiar with biophilic concepts. The two offices present interesting case studies, but it wasn’t made clear why they were selected and how they served the research aim (comment #12). Explanations here would be welcomed. Finally, please consider revising some of the statistical analyses, which at present make use of parametric assumptions (comments #13 and #17). Although this I don’t believe this would be a large undertaking, the analysis would be better served by non-parametric tests due to the level of measurement used (i.e. 5-point scales). Despite this, I did appreciate the level of detail the analysis went to, and hope that these proposed alterations will benefit the quality of this manuscript. Some further detailed comments are provided below, along with some suggested references for consideration.
Introduction
#1: The definition of biophilia is described as an “inherent love” toward nature. While this is somewhat accurate, it might be more appropriate to elucidate this as an “inherent affinity”.
#2: P1, L39-41: Please provide references to these frameworks. Reading further to page 3, I believe these are the 24 biophilic design attributes [ref. 25,39], and the 14 patterns of biophilic design [ref.40]. Further references around the biophilic concept could also be provided, e.g.:
Bjørn et al., 2009. Biophilia: Does Visual Contact with Nature Impact on Health and Well-Being? International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.
Ulrich, 1993. Biophilia, biophobia, and natural landscapes.
Ko et al., 2020. A window view quality assessment framework. LEUKOS.
The latter reference reviewed many international standards that advocate nature and biophilic design for view and building spaces, with examples given to the Singapore context. This somewhat overlaps with my next comment.
#3: P2, 47-53: Although in the past there were few guidelines, nowadays, there may be more standards that focus on nature integration within the built environment. WELL v2 has several features for Nature and Mind, and Biophilia – Parts I and II, with quantitative assessment methods provided. Similarly, the Green Mark system uses the green plot ratio, assigning credits to greenery provision to enhance biodiversity and visual relief. Other standards likely incorporate biophilic elements in building architecture, and could be worth highlighting.
The general issue raised by the authors do not necessarily imply a lack of guidelines for biophilic design, since there are several readily available, but may point toward prioritisation or emphasis of criteria to meet certain varying expectations, which was alluded to on lines 52-53. If the authors agree with this, perhaps this could be revised here to reflect this.
#4: P2, L63: Although I wouldn’t completely rule this out, POE surveys may not always provide feedback to the architect, since they are implemented post design-stage and the building would be operated by facility management or the owner. In my view, POE information had more utility diagnosing operation problems, which can be solved when running the building, identifying prominent sources of dissatisfaction that can prompt action to resolve these issues. Recently POE studies, also using office data, advocate this as benefit to their implementation, albeit not necessarily being the only reason:
Graham et al., 2020. Lessons learned from 20 years of CBE’s occupant surveys. Building & Cities.
Kent et al., 2021. A data-driven analysis of occupant workspace dissatisfaction. Building and Environment.
Cheung et al. 2021. Occupant satisfaction with the indoor environment in seven commercial buildings in Singapore. Building and Environment.
#5: P3, L92: I think refers to “has helped” given the five decades predating this.
#6: P3, L106: While I generally agree with, questions could be raised to whether POE scales should be used to evaluate biophilic design evaluation. Biophilic design is known to elicit mental and physical health benefits, as stated by the authors on page 1, lines 29-32. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to use psychological scales (e.g. PANAS or psychological restoration), instead of design orientated question or survey. If the authors agree with this, this aspect could be revised.
Method
#7: Something I felt would useful would at the beginning would be a clear definition for what “biophilic attributes” refers to. Figure 1 provides some insights into this, but these listed attributes span across different domains and the communal features are not that apparent. This becomes an issue later, since some aspects referring to biophilic design become unclear.
#8: P4, L173-174: The authors state that seven of the patterns from the 14 patterns of biophilic design were discarded. If this was the case, then please better articulate its overarching utility in this study, considering that half of the patterns were not relevant to the research scope.
#9: P4, L180-183: In traditional POE studies and general building science research, daylight, thermal comfort, and air-quality, would be considered as indoor environment parameters (as examples, please see refs. in comment #4), while office layout and building form would be considered a physical and architectural parameters. Reading further to page 5, lines 189-192, the authors begin to suggest to this, but referred to them and others indoor environmental parameters as factors for the workplace. I would suggest better rationalising the connections between the nine design parameters to biophilia to make these more overt.
#10: Figure 1: The image presenting all the linkages is very interesting and is worth emphasising, but contains an overwhelming degree of information, and the text and line sizes are too small for readership. Please consider simplifying the figure. For example, some text boxes many not need further explanation (e.g. presence of water); also the lines connecting column A to the same patterns in column 4 could be colour coordinated.
#11: Table 2: Please consider providing further explanations for this table. It was not clear what the authors wanted to show.
#12: P8, L245: Please specify why these two offices were of interest (e.g., were they comparable or had specify architectural features worthy of study). If possible, please provide more characteristics (e.g. size, floor area, furniture layout (e.g. open-plan or enclosed), etc.) for each office. Later (P10, L299), it says 201 questionnaires were collected, with 161 occupants taking part in the Singaporean office. This led me to believe that this office was much larger than the building studied in China. An image showing the indoor conditions and outdoor façade for each might be beneficial. Many of the explanations found in section 3.1 could be moved into this part of the manuscript, since they many describe and show the existing office conditions and to do necessarily form part of the main results.
Results
#13: Section 3.3. Although I appreciated the thoroughness to which the descriptive statistical was explained, I wasn’t convinced the mean was the best indicator for the data, considering that evaluation scores were collected on a 5-point scale and not a continuous linear one. In-lieu of the mean, please consider using the median and inter-quartile range as the central tendency and dispersion indicators. Figures 1 and 4 can be removed, as the assumption of normality no longer applies (also on P15, L399-400), or replaced with boxplots.
#14: Table 8: Please consider applying benchmarks for what constitute reasonable levels for internal consistency, when using the Cronbach’s Alpha (e.g. α>0.7): Please see, for example: Taber, 2018. The use of Cronbach’s Alpha when developing and reporting research instruments in science education. Research in Science Education.
Tavakol et al. Making sense of Cronbach’s Alpha. International Journal of Medical Education.
#15: Figure 3. The plot is well presented. A few minor notes for improvement: 1) Please consider adding short or abbreviated labels referring to the actual question, instead of codes (e.g. GH3-Q10). This would make it easier for the reader; 2) Round the percentages to the nearest whole number.
#16: P17, L434: Please correct the unfortunate citation error on this line.
#17: P18, section 4.2: Similar to comment #13, the data may be more suited to a Spearman’s correlation test, instead of the Pearson’s correlation coefficient. Due to the reasonable size of the dataset collected, it may not change the interpretation, but would help improve the analytical rigour.
#18: P18, L448-450: Please check whether the sentence is accurate, and correct the table caption numbers; I believe these should be Tables 10 and 11 and 12, not 1, 2 and 3. The sentence reads: Homogenous subsets with significant discrepancies (differences?) across subsets, leading to no significant differences across subsets. The above is not easy to grasp. If the information is accurate, please consider amending this to make this clearer.
Conclusions
#19: While the conclusions were well structured, I felt the authors could have highlighted more the main takeaway messages from their endeavours, in particularly the relationship between biophilic design and occupant health and wellbeing. This seems to be a core aspect of their work, but did really emerge from the final section of their work in the same way it was emphasised in the abstract.
