Reviewer 3 Report
Comments for buildings-1613867.

The paper discusses the impacts of biophilic design attributes in offices on workers’ health and wellbeing. The paper is clear and informative. In this paper, through two practical study some results of persuasive and constructive significance. However, some parts of the article which can be optimized.

1.The introduction can be optimized appropriately.The introduction of the term "Biophilia" can be more detailed and easy to understand .By contrast, the introduction of “Biophilic Design”is very substantial.It may be better to find some literature to combine workplace design and “Biophilic Design”,and then to explore the relationship between them.

2.The illustrations in the article are small and a bit vague,some pictures can shrink a little, not to the top to the border,these can be optimized.

3.Overall work of the article is sufficient, the results is has the certain significance, but its limitation is obvious to all. Some of the results in the illustrations are obvious and can be reduced to less elaboration.

4.The result of biophilic design frameworks for specific workplace typology is of certain value. The location of the workplace selected in this article is limited, the related biophilic factors are scientifically screened, and the researchers have made a detailed classification study. However, the huge research scope has certain obstacles to the relevant results, and the general and targeted conclusions will be worse.

It is best to supplement and describe the necessity of research. At the same time, it will be more complete if the results are reflected in the summary.

The object of the questionnaire should be composed of people with different ages and genders, which is best explained in the article.

Adding some explanations, examples and data comparison to the conclusion will be more intuitive and convincing, just as discussed earlier in the article. Perhaps this makes this article more complete and credible. At the same time, the conclusion only summarizes the article, and lasks discussions and explanations for the future research direction.

The theoretical part of the presentation is extensive, but the application part is relatively poorly described

It is better to supplement the temperature, humidity and other parameters of the selected office in the part of the experiment, so as to facilitate readers' reference rather than just giving the location.

The author can think about the impact of such a pro biological design model on the psychology of different experimental personnel. I think  psychological factors will also affect human physiological comfort.

