Reviewer 2 Report
Review v2
Frery et al.: Fault related fluid flow implications for unconventional hydrocarbon development, Beetaloo Sub-basin (Northern Territory, Australia)
The reviewer's comments have largely been addressed by the authors. However, there are still a couple of minor issues.
With respect to the helium measurements, the references to the primary documentation requested by the reviewer in comments to v.1 of the manuscript are not provided, nor do the authors provide any comment as to why they deem this unnecessary. Section 4.3 Helium concentrations and isotopic composition measured in groundwater, is framed around results from previous studies. Providing references to these original studies (including access to the actual data that allow objective verification) rather than referencing to summary papers would be more in line with scientific publishing practice. If the primary documentation is not accessible, the authors should state this clearly.
Figure 4. Seismic reflection data quality is ranked and colour-coded as “Excellent”, “Average” and “Poor”. Where does the fourth category, “Fair”, which also is a qualitative category, fit in, and why not include this category in the legend?
Figure 5. Isochron maps have been included in the supplementary material, the initial review suggested isoCHORE maps. Including these is maybe not critical, but as mentioned in the initial review, thickness maps sometimes highlight structural lineaments quite well. I don't know if this is the case here, but if they do, including isochore maps would enhance the readers' understanding of basin geometry and -infill.
Figure 7. Although the design of the figure is very much improved compared to the one submitted initially, it is still difficult differentiate between the Post Wilton “Strike-slip” and “Reverse” faults. Please use contrasting colours to differentiate them.
If I understand the map correctly, fluid escape features on the map are shown as red dots. Why does the legend show these as thick red lines?
Figure 8. Please keep the number of measurements included in each plot. The plot “Surface drainage network from this study” is identical to the original figure and should have n=130 measurements. According to the new caption shows the unfiltered surface drainage network. To my understanding this should correspond to Figure 2 a, which shows substantially more than 130 lineaments. How did you pick the ones you measured? Please clarify.
