Reviewer 2 Report
Review
Frery et al.: Fault related fluid flow implications for unconventional hydrocarbon development, Beetaloo Sub-basin (Northern Territory, Australia)

Summary of content: The study investigates potential connections between unconventional petroleum plays and water assets in the Beetaloo Sub-basin in the Northern Territory, Australia.
Magnetic data and 2D seismic reflection profiles were used to image structural features, and fluid/gas leakage pathways. Helium content of the aquifer systems was sampled and measured. Recent fault activity was identified using a combination of sub-surface imaging and comparison of fault orientations and surface drainage networks.
The study concludes that there the shallow aquifers are connected to deep-seated gas source along faults, some of which show evidence of recent movement. Helium isotope data do not provide an unequivocal answer to whether the gas originates from the unconventional plays or a deeper source.
Although the authors point out that more data is needed to identify the source of the gas, the observations made in this study confirm the presence of fault-controlled fluid flow pathways connecting the stratigraphic levels where the unconventional plays are located with shallower aquifers the Beetaloo basin.
Review summary
Scientific aims clearly stated.
The text is well organized and well written.
Methods are sound and clearly described,
There are some shortcomings in documentation and presentation of results, which weaken the link between observations and conclusion. Development of the petroleum resources in this region is controversial and faces opposition from Traditional Owners as well as climate scientists, and environmentalists. One of the key issues in the Beetaloo Sub-basin, the risk of groundwater contamination from fracking-based production of the unconventional plays. The present paper is thus part of an ongoing debate and the findings presented here are likely to influence discussions and decisions by stakeholders. This fact stresses the need for clarity when presenting data and results. Improving the design of the figures and adding links/references to primary data sources would go a long way towards addressing this.
Conclusions appear supported by the observations made in this study, but presentation of results needs to be improved.
Detailed comments
Aeromagnetic survey data acquired over the last 50+ years were employed for mapping structural and lithological features.
Although the aeromagnetic data is said to be employed for structural interpretation, details somewhat sketchy. Reference is made to “…prominent […] magnetic lineaments which can be caused by faulting”, and “…several circular low magnetization anomalies, approximately two kilometers in diameter, aligned with northwest trending lineaments”. It would be nice to include a map with these features and lineaments interpreted from the aeromagnetic datasets. This would also tie the observations based on this dataset closer to the seismic interpretation (see below).
Seismic reflection 2D lines (1989-2015). 8500 km. Interpretation of shallow horizons and faults using all publicly available geological and geophysical data of the Beetaloo region. Fault polygons defined for five horizons. Depth conversion using check-shot velocities from 26 wells.
See comments to Figure 4. The depth maps provided in Figure 5 should be supplemented by isochore maps for the rock volumes between pairs of mapped reflectors. See also comments to Figure 7.
Helium measurements from groundwater samples. With respect to the helium measurements, no detailed documentation of where these samples were collected is provided beyond referring to Geological and Bioregional Assessment Program (2021a) Fact sheet 12, and Geological and Bioregional Assessment Program (2021b) Regional tracer results from the Cambrian Limestone Aquifer. These are both summary documents. Please provide a reference to the primary documentation.
Fault and surface drainage network mapping (tectonic geomorphology). The drainage network was extracted automatically. It is not clear if the “simplified” drainage network shown in Figure 2 was also extracted automatically.
The data is summarized in Figure 8 (see also comments to Figure 8 below). It is not clear if the surface drainage network line dataset is based on the “unfiltered” or “simplified” data shown in Figure 2. Since n=130, one can assume the latter. It is however not made clear how this “simplified” network was generated, but there appear to be a substantial number of instances where the “simplification” provides apparent mismatches with the original data (see examples included in comments to Figure 2 below). The accuracy of the resulting plot can therefore be questioned. If the “simplified” network was generated automatically, I encourage the authors to do a manual QC of the results.

-Line 303:  “We reviewed the seismic data in detail at the intersections with north-northwest trending lineaments observed on the magnetic dataset (Figure 4).”  No such lineaments are shown in Figure 4.
-Line352: “However, the elevated helium concentrations show no systematic pattern of increase with flow distance (as expected for in-situ production along the flow path) but a rather patchy regional pattern (Figure 8).” This should refer to Figure 9.
-Line 582. Link for supplementary materials does not work.

Figures
Figure 1A.
-Add scale.
-Add colour scale for map (depth).
-Well- and fault-labels largely illegible. Consider removing labels not referred to in the text.
-Poor visual discretization of main surface fault traces and Post Wilton geophysical faults (maybe use different colour for the two?)
- Replace white labels with black lettering with no labels and white lettering.

Figure 1B
-Consider adding a small inset table or schematic to showing the Cambrian Limestone Aquifer stratigraphy in the Georgina, Daly and Wiso basin. Although this is described in the caption, it is not easy to grasp for someone not familiar with the stratigraphy in the area without spending time some time with paper and pencil.

Figure 2
-Poor quality figure (low resolution) in the version available to the reviewer.
- Very, very overloaded figure, screen-dump from a mapping programme?
-Consider splitting into several maps, e.g. one showing unfiltered + simplified drainage network, and one showing faults).
-How the authors arrive at the simplified drainage network is not very clear



Figure 3
-Very small/illegible typeface on map coordinates – consider simplifying scales and use larger typeface.
-Replace the white label with black typeface with plain white typeface.

Figure 4
-Poor quality figure (low resolution) in the version available to the reviewer.
- Replace white labels with black typeface with white typeface.
-Many well-name labels are hard difficult to read/illegible. Consider replacing well names on the map with numbers at the well position (white circles, black typeface) and add a table in the legend listing number and corresponding name of the well.
-Thin grey seismic lines are not explained in the legend or caption. Why are these not classified in terms of signal quality?
-The outline of the Eastern and Western Beetaloo Basin in Figure 3 and 4 should be kept identical in order to position Figure 6 A, B and C in relation to the seismic lines shown in Figure 4. Alternatively the position of Figure 6 A, B and C should be indicated in Figure 4 as well as Figure 3.

Figure 5. Consider adding isochore maps for intervals between interpreted reflectors. These often highlight tectonic accommodation space creation better than maps.

Figure 6 Add scale(s).

Figure 7. Very poorly designed map (screen-dump?). Reviewer copy is also poor resolution.
Clean up the legend:
a) Remove underscores,
b) Correct use of small caps, large caps in labels.
c) Correct spelling (e.g. frameworkboundaries to framework boundaries; populated places to Populated places/(Settlements?); PossibleFluidEscapeFeatures to Possible fluid-escape features etc. ).
d) Explain/improve labels (what do you mean by “ntspr_2M_gw”? “Coast_10million”? “frameworkboundaries”? “State_Borders_10million”. Amend labels or explain in caption.
e) Several items in the legend appear to have the same or very similar signatures.
Clean up map:
Not possible to differentiate post-Wilton fault types properly in the figure.
Could not find “Coast_10million”, “frameworkboundaries” or “State_Borders_10million” on the map. If these items are present, please use a more contrasting signatures to make it more visible. If they are not present on the map, remove these items from the legend.
Consider replacing the purple outline of the eastern and western sub-basin with light grey shading.
Consider using the most prominent colour (red) for the possible fluid escape features as this is the key element of the map. Bright green might also bee an option.
Not possible to differentiate “ntspr_2M_gw” (whatever that is) and “PossibleFluidEscapeStructures” (same colour).

The link between interpreted faults and fluid or gas escape features is a key feature of this figure. The map differentiates between “BaseCambrian seismic faults”, Post-Wilton “Strike-slip” and “Reverse” faults, and “FAULTS”. The categorization is not adequately explained (e.g. what differentiates “FAULT” from a “BaseCambrianSeismic fault”?).

Consider adding a simple conceptual sketch highlighting the stratigraphic position of the different faults (and possible fluid escape structures– this would also help visualizing which stratigraphic intervals the potential fluid escapes originate from and which stratigraphic intervals are potentially connected along potential fault-related fluid flow pathways.

Figure 8. Please provide a more informative caption to what these plots show. What is included in the “Drainage and structural lineament analysis” plot?

Figure 9. Poor resolution in the copy provided for the review. Consider using higher contrast colours or thicker lines to highlight different faults on the map.


I hope you will find these comments useful when revising the manuscript and look forward to seeing the paper published in Geoscience.
Comments for author File:  Comments.pdf
