Author Response
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:Reviewer #1:
Verolino et al. Present a manuscript comparing the clinical thrombosis outcome in patients undergoing abdominoplasty and being on LMWH vs anti-Xa DOACs. Overall, this is nice work demonstrating the equivalence in efficacy between the LMWH and anti-Xa inhibitor in respect to thrombotic complications. Authors, however, need to address the following concerns:
Point 1: Have authors followed on the bleeding complications like epistaxis, menorrhagia, gum bleedings, etc.?
Answer to the Reviewer point 1: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 2: Authors mention there were 2 cases of hematoma in enoxaparin group. Please describe it further. Were hematomas developing paraumbilically? Or were they seen somewhere else?
Answer to the Reviewer point 2: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 3: Extensive English editing is required.
Answer to the Reviewer Point 3: The new manuscript has been evaluated by an expert of English language.
Point 4: Citations needed for sentences in line 36 and line 37.
Answer to the Reviewer point 4: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 5: In line 89 authors state that "thrombophilic states are rather venous than arterial". Although this may be true from a prevalence standpoint, the way this sentence is structured would mislead the reader. Revise accordingly, since there a number of arterial thromboses that thrombophilias can cause.
Answer to the Reviewer point 5: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 6: In line 87 - authors state "mild thrombophilia". Severity of thrombophilic states are now yet well categorized, therefore more clarification needs to be provided here.
Answer to the Reviewer point 6: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 7: Enoxaparin and rivaroxaban have to be lower case as they are not brand names.
Answer to the Reviewer point 7: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 8: Line 150 - it should be "anti-thrombotic" rather than "an-thrombotic".
Answer to the Reviewer point 8: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

Point 9: P values have to presented in Table 1.
Answer to the Reviewer point 9: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the table 1 was modified accordingly.

Point 10: Line 179 - authors first mention 39 factors, and then in line 179 state 40. Which is true?
Answer to the Reviewer point 10: The observation of the reviewer has been accepted and the manuscript was modified accordingly.

