Reviewer 2 Report
First of all, the paper is very interesting. Despite that, the authors must improve the paper in order to get a better piece of work.
The most important issues to correct urgently:
One question that it is necessary to correct is the number of figures in the text.
Besides, the authors must define better the data how the agricultural labor productivity was calculated. The agricultural output is in current or constant prices? This could have strong implications in one case or another, especially in the first case. The context of this paper consists in growing agricultural prices, especially in the second half of this decade in the world panorama. So, if the agricultural output is in current prices, the growing prices will affect deeply the results. It must be clearer.
On the other hand, in the same line of text (pg. 4 line 3), the authors define the denominator of the agricultural labor productivity as the employed labors in the first sector. What does this first sector mean? Is it a synonymous of agricultural sector? If this “first sector” includes the fish workers, the agricultural labor productivity measures are not correct in the regions with sea access. In this case, it would be the primary sector labor productivity. The authors should also clarify if this sector included the forest products and labor.
It is necessary to concrete more the definition of the data, output and labor, that the authors used in this measurement, because this has strong implications.
In the map of agricultural labor growth in Chinese region, the legend must include which is considered a high growth, medium and low growth of this variable.
Issues to improve the paper:
The introduction is welldone, but it could be improved in some points. I have missed a review of the literature. The measurement of the agricultural labor productivity is an important theme in the literature, not only in the agricultural economics, but also in the economics literature. For example, there are two paper published in two important journals in economics recently that the authors omitted. These papers could be reinforcement about the relevance of this measurement of agricultural productivity: Gollin D, Lagakos D, Waugh ME (2014) Agricultural productivity differences across countries. American Economic Review 104(5):165–170; Gollin D, Lagakos D, Waugh ME (2014) The agricultural productivity gap. Quarterly Journal Economics 129(2): 939–993.
Other thing to improve the introduction would be writing the main objective of the paper. I think, this clear objective could improve the introduction about the target that the authors follow in this paper. In this version, this is relatively diffuse.
The authors could enrich the results’ part with reference to the concepts of convergence of Barro and Sala-i-Martin, beta and sigma convergence. The authors wrote about these concepts, for example pg. 6 lines 22-23 and pg. 9 lines 5-6, but they can point out the non existence in the case of Chinese prefectural level.
Maybe, the footnote 5 could go to the table 2’s note.
One of the most interesting issues of the paper is the political change in 2004. Perhaps, more detailed reasons of the reform would enrich the causes to promote it. Besides, the implications of this political reform are explained in the text, but more detail in these explanations would permit to understand better these changes.
As a suggestion for this paper or another, having the data of output, labor and land, it is also interesting to analyze the agricultural labor productivity explained by the agricultural land productivity and land-labor ratios. Maybe, some simple correlations between the growths of agricultural labor productivity vs land productivity and land-labor ratio could enrich this or future analysis.
