Author Response
Thank you to the reviewer for their comments and helpful suggestions. Please find below our point-by-point response.
1) Since mutations can affect NMDA receptor localization, data on whether AMPA/NMDA ratios changed would be informative. It follows from the methodology that AMPA currents were recorded on a regular basis.
We thank the reviewer for their suggestion and have now computed AMPA-NMDA ratios and included a phrase in lines 424-425 that summarises the statistics for the comparison of AMPA-NMDA ratios between the GluN2B variants (WT and mutants).
2) Please add a chart about tau changes in Figure 3. Please verify if the time scale is correct in Fig. 3А.
We thank the reviewer for this excellent suggestion. We have now measured the decay time constants for the NMDA-EPSCs before and after TCN-201. The graph of the data is shown in a new figure in the supplement, Fig. S4. The finding is insightful, and so we have added a paragraph relating to it in the results section, lines 520-536.
In answer to the last comment here from the reviewer, the time scale in Fig. 3A is correct – the examples chosen are representative of the group data in terms of the amount of block by TCN-201, but these examples all happen to have faster decays than the examples shown in Figures 1 and 2. In any case, to be more consistent with the formatting in some of the other figures, we have lengthened the scale bar and increased the time proportionally.
3) A scheme summarizing how different molecular defects can converge on similar NMDAR-mediated EPSCs would be helpful in the discussion
This is an excellent idea. We have added an additional (final) main text figure, Fig. 7, illustrating how the molecular defects could converge on similar NMDA-EPSCs. We have explained the model in the accompanying figure legend with reference to supporting evidence in other figures.
4) A small commentary on the possible functional significance of the identified mutation properties for the pathogenesis of certain diseases would be interesting.
We have added further discussion relating to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders arising from GRIN2B mutations in lines 765-771 of the manuscript.
