Reviewer 3 Report
Paper title: Electrical characteristics of diamond MOSFET with 2DHG on heteroepitaxy diamond substrate
Paper ID: materials-1627638
Semiconducting diamond has become recently an important material for manufacturing various kinds of electron devices, including  high-energy particle detectors and MOSFETs resistant to nuclear radiation or high temperatures. The paper is of interest, since the authors  show the possibility of making a MOSFET with the channel in a an epitaxial layer of  hydrogen-terminated diamond grown on the substrate fabricated from heteroepitaxial single crystal diamond. However, in the presentation of results there are many points that need to be clarified and improved.
The authors give just a FWHM value of the substrate rocking curve obtained by X-ray measurements. A comment concerning the crystallographic quality of the substrate material  is needed. Comparison with the rocking curve characteristics for other materials, e.g. 4H-SiC would be valuable.
The two-dimensional hole gas (2DHG) that is mentioned in the title is later on only once mentioned in the introduction. A comment saying how the 2DHG is formed in the H-diamond layer is needed. In particular, the band diagram for the interface between the oxide and the diamond layer should be presented. There is no evidence in the text that the 2DHG can be formed. The low mobility of holes is in the contradiction to the fact the MOSFET is with 2DHG.
A comment on the reasons for existing the negative charge in the oxide layer is needed. Please explain why a high density of this charge is observed. What factors can affect the trapped charge density? The dependence of the density of states at the interface on the annealing temperature is strange and should be discussed. With what accuracy is the hole mobility determined. What are the factors influencing the accuracy (uncertainty).
Why the current density is given in the units of [mA/mm], not in [mA/mm2] and transconductance in [mS/mm], not in [mS]. Is it somehow normalized? The power density is also in [W/mm], not in [W/mm2]. On page 3, the on-resistance is in [Ωmm], not in [Ω]?
On page 2, there is LSG and LSD are 9 µm. Should be LSG and LGD are 9 µm. Besides, there are a lot of language errors. For example, in the title: there is heteroepitaxy; should be heteroepitaxial, first line of the introduction: there is diamond semiconductor have been studied; should be diamond semiconductor has been studied; first line of second paragraph: there is vast majority, should be the vast majority. Please check thoroughly  the text  in terms of the English and remove the errors related to grammar and style.
