Reviewer 1 Report
The authors provide a study on a semi-Lagrangian Godunov-type Method without Numerical Viscosity for Shocks.  The manuscript is well written, and carries information to the readers. I have, however, some fundamental remarks that if satisfactorily addressed could improve the final impact of the work.
The article does not completely contain a Nomenclature table. Please include all symbols in a table dedicated to them, which will be at the beginning of the article after the abstract and keywords. The description of each symbol (e.g., after each equation) may be avoided if a Nomenclature is provided, otherwise, all symbols should be clearly defined at the first instance of appearance in the manuscript.
As for the article abstract, it does not describe clearly the considered problem. The abstract should contain answers to the following questions: What problem was studied and why is it important? What methods were used? What are the important results? What conclusions can be drawn from the results? What is the novelty of the work and where does it go beyond previous efforts in the literature? Please include specific and quantitative results in your abstract, while ensuring that it is suitable for a broad audience.
The novelty of this study is not clear, and needs to be highlighted explicitly to ensure it is clear to the reader what is new in the research and advancing the state of the art. Simultaneously, it needs to be made clear that the research does not cover only previously known information, and the knowledge gap needs to be clearly addressed.
The literature review should be improved to meet the standard of the journal. It does not appear adequate and does not include sufficient important journals.
Please provide appropriate references for the mentioned equations. Define all the parameters used in equations.
Please determine your future studies in some sentences in conclusion or discussion, to show readers how you want to proceed this work in the future.
