Reviewer 1 Report
Gregoire and colleagues present an in depth comparison of polarizability measurements on alkali atoms, mostly based on their own matter-wave deflectometry studies but also including other prior data and their own here updated electric field calibrations.While the idea of such experiments is well established and has already been published and here properly referenced by the authors themselves, the new data set is more comprehensive, has well clearly improved error bars and thus represents a very valuable set of reference data for a large community in cold atom physics and matter-wave metrology.The paper is well written in a tutorial style but with emphasis on accurate discussion of the uncertainties. Even though it may not break entirely new grounds, it puts the state of the art in a new consistent context and improves on an entire series of atomic constants.The introduction presents the goal of the paper in clear way, referring to uses of polarizability values in atomic physics. Also the set of references is rather comprehensive, giving a fair account of the state of the art.As the authors point out, based on the present reevaluation it appears that atom interferometry provides the most accurate data for static electric dipole polarizabilities in five different atomic species, which is a remarkable fact. It is very likely that this paper will be cited rather often as a very valuable reference work.The paper should be published as it is, with only minor commentsMinor comments
Line 33: “with” in front of high-energy missing.
Figure 1: It would be more self-consistent to define all letters (physical quantities) in the figure caption…
Line 46-50: Somehow the logic seems reversed…the paper should be self-contained, so even though they refer to earlier work they should spend 5 lines on explaining the principle of the experiment. Only then it is clear where the improvement comes from (which they then explain well).
Line 92 and following:It may be worthwhile to comment on the line splittings in the ground and excited state. The equations assume the atom as a 2-level system (but with a multiplicity g). A short comment on how the hyperfine splitting, and (admittedly very small) Zeeman splitting (in particular for static polarizabilities) are relevant may add to the tutorial value of this work. Which hyperfine state is taken for omega1 and omega2… or mention that on the accuracy level of 0.1% this does not make a difference,
Eq. 22: It may be useful to optimize the type setting to avoid stapled double fractions with tiny letters.
Line 178 an article in front of “error”?
Figure 7: Subscripts too small… hard to read.
Figure 8: as in 7 … at least in the review manuscript
Figures generally: better no “light green” as it does not provide a high contrast. Since red-green blindness is wide-spread… it is better to use dashed/dotted/solid lines and pairs of colors other than red and green.
