Author Response
May 25, 2022



Dear Managing Editor,

On behalf of all the authors, I appreciate the opportunity of obtaining a careful evaluation from the reviewers concerning the article entitled “Short-term high-intensity circuit training does not modify resting heart rate variability in adults during the COVID-19 confinement” (ID: ijerph-1710486). We have answered the questions and the concerns of the reviewers point by point, and the manuscript has been modified according to the suggestions and guidelines of the journal (new information added is marked with blue color), and the revised version is being submitted. The suggestions offered by the reviewers have been especially helpful. My research group and I are sure that the reviewers comments have improved substantially the manuscript content.
Once more, I would appreciate your considering this manuscript in your journal and we hope that this version will be accepted for publication.





Yours faithfully,


Alberto Jiménez Maldonado, Ph.D
Facultad de Deportes Campus Ensenada,
Universidad Autónoma de Baja California,
e-mail: [email protected]

Reviewer 2

I highly appreciate the idea of this study. Physical activity is an important part for maintaining during the lockdowns caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The HICT exercise introduced in this study is a good approach because it is time saving and requires no special gym equipment, so it should be well adhered to. I also appreciate the methodology used in this study. On-line forms and wearable ECG devices with a mobile app were used and such an approach can be used for future development of telemedicine. I appreciate that the experimental part of this study was conducted despite the lockdown and restrictions caused by COVID-19. However, I find some serious shortcomings in the study, especially in the statistical analysis. Please read my comments below.

Line 31: Which kind of stress did you mean? How was the stress assessed? I did not find any psychometric variables related to stress.
R: Thank you for this valuable comment
Changes: We re-word that sentence.
Line 69: Yes, HRV can be used to assess the physiological effect as well as psychological stress. How did you distinguish between these sources in this study?
R: Thank you for your observation in this regard, we agreed with you on how HRV can be utilized for both physiological and psychological variables.
However, we chose to use the HRV as a tool to assess physiological aspects and, in parallel, we applied a questionnaire to attest psychological stress variables (https://opus.lib.uts.edu.au/bitstream/10453/17087/1/2010001392OK.pdf).
Considering the research approach, we chose not to present the questionnaire data and only work with the HRV data in the physiological field.
Line 80: This paragraph is a remainder of the template. Remove it.
R: Thanks for signaling this mistake.
Changes: We deleted that sentence from the original template.
Line 100: Please specify the randomization procedure. I cannot find any information about it.
R: Thank you for this observation, the randomization was simple and using an Excel spreadsheet.
Changes: New information was added in the participants section.
Line 108: For devices and software (e.g. Polar H10, Elite HRV, Kubios HRV, R software) the manufacturer, city and country should be indicated. Please check this throughout the manuscript.
R: Thank you for your comments, the devices manufacturers and cities are seen as bellow:
Polar H10 HR monitor with a Pro Strap (Polar Electro Oy, Kempele, Finland) Kubios Heart Rate Variability standard version software (© 2 2016-2021 Kubios Oy, Finland), the beat-to-beat intervals (R–R) were registered using the free smartphone application Elite HRV® app (Elite HRV LLC, Asheville, NC, USA, Release 4.0.2, 2018). Prism software (GraphPad Inc., San Diego, CA, USA, Release 6.01, 2012). R Core Team. (2021). R:  A language and environment for statistical computing. https://www.r-project.org/ and RStudio Team. (2020). RStudio: Integrated Development for R. PBC. http://www.rstudio.com/
Changes: We included this information in the methods section.
Line 118: The figure should be redrawn to comply the requirements of the CONSORT flow diagram. Available at http://www.consort-statement.org/consort-statement/flow-diagram
R: Thanks for your valuable suggestion
Changes: We modified the former format to the CONSORT format.



Line 123: “10 min before” So the participants remained supine for 10 min to stabilize heart rate, followed by another 10 min of recording That is not usual. Rather, participants lay supine for 10 min, with the first 5 min served as stabilization and the last 5 min recorded and analyzed. Please revise this text.
R: We employed the methods suggested for perturbations on the ANS, due to the uncertainty of getting the baseline data disrupted by the individual’s state during lockdown. Furthermore, following the Task Force of the European Society of Cardiology and the North American Society of Pacing Electrophysiology guidelines, a display of stacked series of sequential power spectra (for example, over 20 min) may help confirm steady state conditions for a given physiological state. https://doi.org/10.1161/01.CIR.93.5.1043
Line 128: Were the RR records visually inspected by an expert and fixed for artifacts if necessary?
R: Thanks for your observation, the RR recordings were analyzed by the first author of the MS, and the artifacts were fixed at very low correction.
Changes: We corrected the latter sentence in HRV analysis.
Line 130: You used too many interdependent HRV variables. The mean RR is reciprocal to the mean HR, so one of them can be omitte NN50 and pNN50 are very old indexes of vagal activity and can be omitted, RMSSD alone is sufficient as a time index of vagal activity.LFnu, HFnu, and LF/HF are redundant. Please read https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24847279/ Therefore, select and publish only one, preferably LF/HF. Why did not you use a nonlinear index? For example, the sample entropy.
R: Thank you for your comment, even though these time domain variables are redundant between each other, the report was made in order to be descriptive and inferential for other cardiac performance characteristics.
For non-linear indexes, it was previously reported that SD1 and SD2 are the equivalents for RMSSD, HF and LF respectively https://doi.org/10.1002/mus.25573 and for sample entropy, it requires at least 800 RR intervals to be analyzed 10.1007/s10877-009-9210-z.
Line 133: Please specify the frequency bands for the calculated HRV frequency indexes.
R: Thanks for your observation. We will specify the frequency bands in the MS.
Changes: New information was included in the HRV analysis section.
Line 149: Please specify the calculation of Cohen’s d. I cannot find any information about it. Please note that there are various definitions. Please read https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24324449/
R: Thank you for this comment.
Changes: We added our Cohen’s d values and its calculation as stated by Cohen, 1992.

Line 152: The ANCOVA used in this study may be appropriate. However, I cannot verify this. Please specify the ANCOVA model using Wilkinson’s notation. Anyway, I mean that ANCOVA is excessive in this case. A repeated measures ANOVA would be sufficient and much more understandable to the readers.
R: Thank you for this comment. We sought statistical advice, and we discussed the strengths and limitations of ANOVA for this specific data set. We decided to include ANCOVA to remove the initial error variance in both, the control and the experimental groups. We believe that this is a powerful approach for analyzing our data. Each data obtained after the training period was used as a response variable to build a regression using as a design factor the subjects' grouping variable (i.e., control, exercise) and, as a covariate, the baseline measurements. The regression model built used the concept of the sum of squares of marginal regression to analyze the variability that explains whether performing HICT or not once the corresponding covariate has been included, and that has previously explained a part of the total sum of squares.
Line 168: The term “technical error of measurement” is not appropriate here because this is not a reliability study. A more appropriate term is “within-subject standard deviation”.
R: Thank you for your observation. We have changed the term accordingly.
Line 170: Please provide a reference to the definition of smallest worthwhile change SWC = 1.96 × TEM. Note that Buchheit (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24578692/) on page 13 recommended SWC = 0.5 × TEM for HRV indexes. Please justify this issue.
R: Thank you for this comment. We agreed with the reviewer, and based on your suggestion, we have computed the new SWCs according to Buchheit’s paper, which seems more appropriate for this study than the approach we initially followed.  Consequently, the new SWC data are reported on Table 2.

Buchheit M. (2014). Monitoring training status with HR measures: do all roads lead to Rome?. Frontiers in physiology, 5, 73. https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2014.00073
Line 175: HR values should be rounded to integers, more precisely the SD should be rounded to two significant digits. See Hopkins et al (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19092709/), page 5.
R: Thank you for your observation.
Changes: Adjust the HR values to integers
Line 175: The values presented here are for HICT, control or combined? If they are combined, this is not good practice in this case. Please provide values separately for HICT and control.
R: Thank you for your comment, the values of HR reported in this line were exclusively done for the HICT, for the purpose of showing the exercise intensity for this specific group.
Changes: We re-structure the sentence and now is clear to which group is referred the HR values.
Line 178: There is “min” alone. Is it minutes per day?
R: We thank the reviewer for this question, it is minutes per day.
Changes: We corrected that line.
Table 1: Please provide the sex distribution. Were they all males or females?
R: We thank the reviewer for this suggestion.
Changes: We added sex distribution in table 1.
Table 1: This study includes 9 participants in the HICT and 4 in the control group. The sample size of 9 is small and only acceptable in certain circumstances as a costly or time-consuming intervention. It is questionable that this is the case. A sample size of 4 is very small and only acceptable in exceptional circumstances, for example, when laboratory animals are sacrificed or patients with a rare diagnosis. This is not the case in this study. This is the main shortcoming of this study. The statistically insignificant results shown in Table 2 are clearly due to the small sample size. The high power values presented in Table 2 are an illusion because the power is calculated from an unrealistically high SWC = 1.98 TEM. Do you really believe that changes below ~2 TEM are not practically significant? If so, please explain carefully and provide references. In my opinion, you need to include more participants in the control group. If this is not possible, please consider removing the control group and present only the longitudinal changes in the HICT group and name this study as a pilot study.
R: Thank you for your comment. We acknowledge that studying large samples will always be desirable over small samples when using a frequentist approach to null hypothesis significance testing, and under normal circumstances. We could have recruited more volunteers for our study; however, the Covid-19 pandemic prevented us from doing it. Large samples do not guarantee that the effects (if any) might be of relevant or practical importance because large samples also elicit trivial statistically significant effects (e.g., p = 0.001) (Levine & Hullett, 2006). Our data suggest that the sample size was not responsible for the lack of statistically significant differences given the a posteriori power analysis. At this time, we do not know whether the new SWC values computed according to Bucheit (2014) have a clinical or practical importance.

Buchheit M. (2014). Monitoring training status with HR measures: do all roads lead to Rome?. Frontiers in physiology, 5, 73. https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2014.00073
Levine, T. R., & Hullett, C. R. (2006). Eta Squared, Partial Eta Squared, and Misreporting of Effect Size in Communication Research. Human Communication Research, 28(4), 612-625. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-2958.2002.tb00828.x
Figure 2: The whiskers are indistinguishable between S1 and S36. Please explain the symbols “*” and “**”. What statistical test was used?
R: Thank you for indicating this error on the figure legend.
Changes: We corrected the legend with new information.
Table 2: Please provide descriptive statistics for the HRV indexes, specifically mean, standard deviation and Cohen’s d. Also provide the units.
R: Thank you for your comment
Changes: We added in the table 2 descriptive statistics for the HRV indexes (mean, standard deviation and Cohen’s d).

Figure 3: Please describe what black and grey mean. Likely black is the HICT and grey is the control, but it must be clearly presented.
R: Thank you for your comment
Changes: We added this group depiction on the figure legend.

Line 225: I cannot find the resting HR in the results section.

R: Thank you for your comment
Changes: The resting HR data have been included in the table 2.

Line 268: HR and RR alone are not indexes of parasympathetic activity. RMSSD is. Please see Buchheit’s review noted above.
R: Thank you for your comment.
Changes: we re-structure that sentence.
Line 273: How was overtraining assessed in this study?
R: Thank you for your comment. We use the same HRV indexes to monitor for any physiological overreaching element in the HICT group https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1475-0961.2003.00523.x
Changes: We re-structured that line.
Line 294: Again, a remainder of the template.
R: Thank you for your observation.
Changes: We deleted that paragraph
Line 318: Please include the Data Availability Statement at the end of the manuscript.
R: Thanks for the suggestion
Changes: Data Availability Statement was included before Acknowledgements.


Author Response File:  Author Response.pdf
