Reviewer 1 Report
The first question for the authors refers to the number of subjects, in this sense I want to ask if the authors consider that the inclusion in this study of 13 participants is sufficient and relevant for this research.
What was the reason why more subjects were not included in this study? I know it was a quarantine period but still such a number of participants is quite difficult to understand.
Introduction - is well presented and detailed. At line 52 you need to replace the year (2020) with the reference number, also for line 174, 257 etc...
Lines 80 - 88: ''Introduction should briefly place the study in a broad context and highlight why it is important. It should define the purpose of the work and its significance. The current state of the research field should be carefully reviewed and key publications cited. Please  highlight controversial and diverging hypotheses when necessary. Finally, briefly mention the main aim of the work and highlight the principal conclusions. As far as possible, please keep the introduction comprehensible to scientists outside your particular field of research. References should be numbered in order of appearance and indicated by a numeral or numerals in square brackets—e.g., [1] or [2,3], or [4–6]. See the end of the document for further details on references''........what is this?
After deleting the previous paragraph, please include very clearly, in this chapter, what was the novelty of the study.
Did the 13 selected subjects present evidence that they are clinically healthy? This is very important, especially since these subjects will perform demanding sports programs for the body.
Line 106-107- ''Also, the participants  completed an electronic version, via Google Forms, of the short-form International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ).'' What was the reason for completing this questionnaire? the authors do not present any other information regarding this physical activity assessment tool nor any information regarding its content. It is very important for readers to understand very clearly the reason for applying this questionnaire.
''Each exercise was followed by 30sec passive recovery''..why did you opt for the passive break? Wasn't it better to take an active break to keep high the excitability of the central nervous system?
Table 1 - From IPAQ we do not see: high, medium and low PA, where are these variants of physical activity classification? I know that the intensity of an exercise or activity was calculated, but I did not see a PA classification.
For Table 2 you must add below the table the name for each abbreviation used, also for all the tables, which is the case.
Line 253-254: ''Several reports have demonstrated that physical activity levels influence HRV adaptations from exercise training [39,40] .''.... in your article we did not see a classification of PA, as we mentioned in the comment above, it was not good to have this information to be able to compare with these reports?
Line 294-297 - ''should discuss the results and how they can be interpreted from the perspective of previous studies and of the working hypotheses. The findings and their implications should be discussed in the broadest context possible. Future research directions may also  be highlighted''....Again, what is this?
Do you think that the small number of subjects could be a limit of the paper?
