Reviewer 2 Report
Review of the manuscript entitled "Short-term high-intensity circuit training does not modify resting heart rate variability in adults during the COVID-19 confinement" for the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.
I highly appreciate the idea of this study. Physical activity is an important part for maintaining during the lockdowns caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The HICT exercise introduced in this study is a good approach because it is time saving and requires no special gym equipment, so it should be well adhered to. I also appreciate the methodology used in this study. On-line forms and wearable ECG devices with a mobile app were used and such an approach can be used for future development of telemedicine. I appreciate that the experimental part of this study was conducted despite the lockdown and restrictions caused by COVID-19. However, I find some serious shortcomings in the study, especially in the statistical analysis. Please read my comments below.
Line 31: Which kind of stress did you mean? How was the stress assessed? I did not find any psychometric variables related to stress.
Line 69: Yes, HRV can be used to assess the physiological effect as well as psychological stress. How did you distinguish between these sources in this study?
Line 80: This paragraph is a remainder of the template. Remove it.
Line 100: Please specify the randomization procedure. I cannot find any information about it.
Line 108: For devices and software (e.g. Polar H10, Elite HRV, Kubios HRV, R software) the manufacturer, city and country should be indicated. Please check this throughout the manuscript.
Line 118: The figure should be redrawn to comply the requirements of the CONSORT flow diagram. Available at http://www.consort-statement.org/consort-statement/flow-diagram
Line 123: “10 min before” So the participants remained supine for 10 min to stabilize heart rate, followed by another 10 min of recording That is not usual. Rather, participants lay supine for 10 min, with the first 5 min served as stabilization and the last 5 min recorded and analyzed. Please revise this text.
Line 128: Were the RR records visually inspected by an expert and fixed for artifacts if necessary?
Line 130: You used too many interdependent HRV variables. The mean RR is reciprocal to the mean HR, so one of them can be omitted. NN50 and pNN50 are very old indexes of vagal activity and can be omitted, RMSSD alone is sufficient as a time index of vagal activity. LFnu, HFnu, and LF/HF are redundant. Please read https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24847279/ Therefore, select and publish only one, preferably LF/HF. Why did not you use a nonlinear index? For example, the sample entropy.
Line 133: Please specify the frequency bands for the calculated HRV frequency indexes.
Line 149: Please specify the calculation of Cohen’s d. I cannot find any information about it. Please note that there are various definitions. Please read https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24324449/
Line 152: The ANCOVA used in this study may be appropriate. However, I cannot verify this. Please specify the ANCOVA model using Wilkinson’s notation. Anyway, I mean that ANCOVA is excessive in this case. A repeated measures ANOVA would be sufficient and much more understandable to the readers.
Line 168: The term “technical error of measurement” is not appropriate here because this is not a reliability study. A more appropriate term is “within-subject standard deviation”.
Line 170: Please provide a reference to the definition of smallest worthwhile change SWC = 1.96 × TEM. Note that Buchheit (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24578692/) on page 13 recommended SWC = 0.5 × TEM for HRV indexes. Please justify this issue.
Line 175: HR values should be rounded to integers, more precisely the SD should be rounded to two significant digits. See Hopkins et al (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19092709/), page 5.
Line 175: The values presented here are for HICT, control or combined? If they are combined, this is not good practice in this case. Please provide values separately for HICT and control.
Line 178: There is “min” alone. Is it minutes per day?
Table 1: Please provide the sex distribution. Were they all males or females?
Table 1: This study includes 9 participants in the HICT and 4 in the control group. The sample size of 9 is small and only acceptable in certain circumstances as a costly or time-consuming intervention. It is questionable that this is the case. A sample size of 4 is very small and only acceptable in exceptional circumstances, for example, when laboratory animals are sacrificed or patients with a rare diagnosis. This is not the case in this study. This is the main shortcoming of this study. The statistically insignificant results shown in Table 2 are clearly due to the small sample size. The high power values presented in Table 2 are an illusion because the power is calculated from an unrealistically high SWC = 1.98 TEM. Do you really believe that changes below ~2 TEM are not practically significant? If so, please explain carefully and provide references. In my opinion, you need to include more participants in the control group. If this is not possible, please consider removing the control group and present only the longitudinal changes in the HICT group and name this study as a pilot study.
Figure 2: The whiskers are indistinguishable between S1 and S36. Please explain the symbols “*” and “**”. What statistical test was used?
Table 2: Please provide descriptive statistics for the HRV indexes, specifically mean, standard deviation and Cohen’s d. Also provide the units.
Figure 3: Please describe what black and grey mean. Likely black is the HICT and grey is the control, but it must be clearly presented.
Line 225: I cannot find the resting HR in the results section.
Line 268: HR and RR alone are not indexes of parasympathetic activity. RMSSD is. Please see Buchheit’s review noted above.
Line 273: How was overtraining assessed in this study?
Line 294: Again, a remainder of the template.
Line 318: Please include the Data Availability Statement at the end of the manuscript.
