Reviewer 2 Report
The authors made substantial efforts to take my comments into account, and I commend them for that. However, despite the good improvements, I have some remaining concerns.
There are still some "Reference not found" errors and line breaks when referring to figures in the text, but almost everything regarding the format has been fixed, which gives the revised paper a much more professional look than its previous version. Regarding the references, my point was that there are many references *with formatting mistakes in them*, and not that there are too many references in the bibliography. Please feel free to add them back if you feel they should be included.
The motivation of the paper is still unclear for me in the introduction, and the reasons for the limitations of smart city services are not clear in Section 2, but is much better explained later in the paper, which is a nice improvement. I believe that explaining standard constraints (due to the multiplicity of service providers) and coupling between services in the introduction to motivate the paper would be valuable. Indeed, if my understanding is correct, they are the factors that cause the limitations of smart city services the authors want to address.
The authors made some efforts to streamline Section 2, and it is much easier to follow in its current form. However some parts still appear unnecessary to me. Table 3 just shows that medical, crime prevention, transportation, and environmental services are the most frequent, which is already said in the text, but without an explanation of what pilot city, regulatory sandbox, and smart city challenge are, it is difficult to extract anything else from this table. Table 7 does not bring much useful insights as well in its current form. The authors have not responded to my previous comment on this table, I thus redirect them to my review of the previous version.
Section 3.1 gives an overview of the COVID-19 and smart city systems situation in South Korea, but is not part of the novel contribution by the authors. I would thus include it in Section 2 instead. Section 2 would thus have a part on smart city services, a part on COVID-19 response plans, and then the current content of 3.1 which deals with the relationship between the two parts of the current Section 2. It would allow a smoother transition between Section 2 and Section 3, as the modified Section 2 would conclude with the need for a novel smart city service structure.
From the additional explanations in the text, I understand that the idea is to track the movements of everyone and then use that information to trace back the contacts of confirmed infected patients. I stand by my position that the feasibility/ethical aspects should be discussed, at least from a social acceptance or a legal point of view, as the reader is left skeptical about whether it can actually be done with the current explanations. The authors bring up interesting legal considerations in their response to my comments, it would be nice to have them in the paper to show the reader under which conditions the authors' solution can be used.
Finally, and this is my biggest remaining concern, the authors have not responded to my comment regarding the lack of explanations on how the flexible adding and removal of the proposed services would be achieved. This is still unclear to me in the paper. This is a very important point, since it changes what is the contribution of the paper. The current contribution seems to be the proposal of new services to handle the COVID situation, or similar situations in the future. However, I am lacking the contribution on the more general issue of integrating and removing services in an existing smart city infrastructure. In other terms, what can we use from the authors' paper to achieve a more flexible smart city service structure?
In brief, the authors have made major improvements on the form and good improvements to the content. However, there are still several of my previous comments that were not answered or not answered in a sufficiently convincing way.
