Reviewer 2 Report
This article advocates for better flexibility (in the sense of adding and removing when necessary) of smart city services and better integration between them. The authors argue that this would be precious to predict and fight against a pandemic, and as such they propose a smart city structure model.
First, I have a series of concerns regarding the form. There are some phrasing issues and typos throughout the paper. There are also many in-text reference errors with tables, which makes it hard to follow given the high number of tables (13!). Also, references to figures seem to include the full caption and cause line breaks instead of the figure number only. Please check especially the conclusion, this is hardly readable. There are referencing issues with sections as well (e.g. line 213: “As mentioned in 0”) Finally, and most importantly, the format of the bibliography is highly problematic. For many references (e.g. [15], [22], [25]) it is impossible to retrieve the source. For many other sources, the local access path of the file is provided, which again prevents the reader from retrieving the source. All these issues could have been picked up by a simple check. Unfortunately, they are enough for me to recommend to reject the paper, as I consider that submitting a report of scientific quality in this form is unacceptable.
The content of the paper raises major concerns as well.
In the introduction, I could not understand the motivation of the paper. The authors argue that the smart city services failed to be flexible enough to predict and fight the pandemic. However, I am lacking a concrete example of failure that proves the authors’ point. It is well-known that different services are hard to integrate together (this is not specific to the smart city), but I would have liked the authors to illustrate in light of the pandemic context, and maybe to the context of Korea since their contribution is specific to this geographic context in that it integrates the 12 smart city categories of Korea and the healthcare phases of Korea. The contribution is not presented in the introduction, only the problem is.
The literature review is very long (it represents half of the paper) and can be significantly shortened as it contains few information that is actually useful to the rest of the paper. It is also hard to read, as it contains more tabular content than text. In Table 3, what is an EA? Table 4 presents smart city projects of several different countries. The authors than write that these services have a limitation in that cannot predict and prevent transmission of threats such as COVID. It the threats concern COVID only, it does not really make sense, as many of the mentioned services simply do not have this goal (e.g. smart grid). If it goes beyond COVID, this is a claim that needs to be backed with a sound and transparent evaluation by the authors or literature. Table 5 is useless in my opinion. It is well-known that many standards exist and are not used in every service, which causes integration issues. The authors could remove the table and mention 1-2 standards relevant for pandemics and make the same point. Section 2.3 has the same title as Section 2.2. It presents phased plans for pandemics. Several different plans are described, which is useless information for the reader. Indeed, the phases in a Texan county are of no use to understand the authors’ contribution. They could easily break the section down to the essential information that would be the WHO phases and the Korean healthcare phases, and mention that there are global and local plans throughout the world with different phases. Tables 8 and 9 can thus be removed. Table 7 is not very informative, all the phases say that actions from the previous phase should be continued or initiated. I have checked the online source and it mentions other aspects such as treatment and isolation for the recognition phase, which have not been picked up by the authors. A case study approach restricted to Korea would be more informative and more consistent with the contribution of the paper, which is as I mentioned specific to Korea.
Section 3, named “Main discussion”, should be renamed to be more explicit regarding what the reader can expect to find. I suggest e.g. “Revised model of smart city service structure”.
The contribution is a proposition of services such as screening people with thermal cameras and tracking infected people through CCTV. However, it misses a critical point of COVID. Infected people are in the public space without knowing that they have COVID, since contagion happens before symptoms appears. Once infected people have been identified, they are supposedly in quarantine. Do the authors propose to track everyone and then go back to the records of infected people to retrieve their paths and contacts? Or do the authors want to check if infected people are outside their home instead of in quarantine? This is not clear to me. Also, and more importantly, the integration and flexibility aspects are not really addressed in the end. The authors do not explain how the services they propose could be integrated with existing ones (e.g. which standards should be used) and how the services can be added or removed. This part is only represented as clouds in the proposed structure model but not discussed further. Therefore, it seems that the contribution breaks down to proposing strict tracking services which feasibility and acceptance by the population is not assessed.
My last concern is the ethical aspects of the proposed services. The authors acknowledge that not addressing these is a limitation of their research. In my opinion, this is more than a limitation, this is essential to discuss given the nature of what the authors propose.
In summary, my suggestions are to focus the paper on the Korean context, in an in-depth case study approach where authors detail more their contribution, clearly illustrate what the problem is and how their contribution helps solving it.
