Reviewer 2 Report
My expertise on BC measurement methods and some of the included statistical methods is limited. However, the methods seem sound, and it seems that this study provides valuable evidence for those seeking to determine fat mass and fat free mass of children for clinical or research purposes. The discussion paragraphs laying out the pros and cons of each method were particularly helpful. My comments may reflect my ignorance, but I offer them nonetheless as other readers may also be confused by some sections as I was.
I am not familiar with the Bland-Altman method, so was unclear when I read the methods section whether the text in lines 204-207 was explaining the Bland-Altman method or describing a separate procedure. I take from the results that those sentences were describing the Bland-Altman procedure, and if so, adding some text along the lines of "In this procedure..." would be helpful. As it was, I couldn't understand the description provided, and it didn't seem to match the figures, which were simply labeled as FM, so seemed to be a simple plots of FM using 2 methods on first read.
Relatedly, it would have been helpful to have more explanatory titles for the plots--eg "Differential correlation between methods across levels of FM". And, the meaning of the trend line was very counter-intuitive, so an interpretive note under the plots would have been helpful. (E.g., "A positive trend indicates increasing underestimation of FM at high FM levels; a negative trend indicates increasing overestimation of FM at high FM levels.
There is no description of the race and ethnic composition of the sample. I am not well-versed in the ethnic composition of Mexico, however, would it be helpful to know the degree of representation of, for example, youth who are Black, of Indigenous ancestry, and of European ancestry? Or are there other ethnic or cultural groups that should be represented?
I didn't understand why the data differed between Table 1 and Supplementary Table 1. Why did Ns (and means/SDs) differ?
Not all abbreviations are listed for the table footnotes (FFM, D2O, DXA, LM, BV, ADP)
