Reviewer 1 Report
Sanoguera-Miralles and Bueno-Martinez et al. present an interesting manuscript that utilizes a minigene splicing assay to examine twenty RAD51C variants catalogued through ClinVar.  All of the variants examined are found within 4 bp of the canonical splice site.  Using the minigene assay the authors were able to demonstrate that all 20 variants altered splicing of the minigene compared to wildtype constructs. While some of these variants resulted in altered transcripts that likely disrupt protein function through either nonsense mediated RNA decay or protein truncation, the authors demonstrate in-frame exon skipping in others. Leaking splicing was also noted in two instances resulting in detection of the canonical transcript in 26.3% and 21.3% of transcripts, respectively.
This was a very interesting manuscript that was well written.  The minigene splicing assay is simplistic in its design, yet provides important functional evidence for the evaluation of spliceogenic variants.  While in silico prediction tools can provide insights to possible impacts of nucleotide variants on splicing, these prediction tools do not replace the empirical evidence that the minigene assay can provide. The type of work presented in this manuscript is invaluable for accurate interpretation of spliceogenic variants that may be detected in families with suspected hereditary breast/ovarian cancer. The assay used is well established and has been used previously to evaluate spliceogenic variants in RAD51C and other hereditary breast/ovarian cancer-associated genes.  The transcript analysis results demonstrated splice complexity with several variants resulting in two or more transcript isoforms.  The assay results enabled direct measurement of the percentage of the isoforms generated thus facilitating a better understanding of the dominant isoform generated by each variant and their effect on protein coding.
The authors further used the minigene splicing assay results, and understanding of RAD51C protein biology, to evaluate each variant using the most current ACMG-AMP frameworks for variant classification.  These variant interpretations were generally evidence based and well thought out.
In general, I thought that this manuscript was interesting to read and added important information to the literature to facilitate accurate variant interpretation of RAD51C spliceogenic variants, which in turn can better facilitate risk assessment and genetic counselling in families carrying these variants. I only had minor suggestions or comments:
Line 156 – the authors refer to “ad-hoc rules” that they have developed for consideration of the different coding transcripts associated with the same spliceogenic variant in variant interpretation and classification.  Although a reference is provided so that the reader can look up what these ad-hoc rules are, it would also be helpful to briefly describe these in the current manuscript.
Lines 250-251 and 263-265– In these lines the authors discuss transcripts in which the encoded proteins lack some beta strands.  The lack of these protein structures are used as evidence to support pathogenicity.  It is not clear from the text how lack of these beta strands is predicted to impact protein function.  Is there evidence from another source that these beta strands are critical to protein function and that their loss is deleterious (rather than resulting in normal or slightly reduced protein activity)?
Lines 259-274 – This paragraph refers to evidence used in the variant interpretation of three aberrant transcripts that kept the open reading-frame (Δ(E2p3), Δ(E5) and ▼(E8p3)).  However, the corresponding tables that summarizes variant classification according to the ACMG/AMP-based criteria (Table 2), does not include these transcript isoform names.  As such, in order to correlate the discussion in this paragraph with the information in table 2, the reader also needs to cross reference Table 1 or 3.  Incorporation of the transcript isoform names in table 2 would assist the reader in correlating this discussion of transcript isoforms with the corresponding evidence used to classify each of the variants.
Lines 342-359 – This paragraph discusses two RAD51C variants, c.404+3A>G and c.705+3A>G, for which mg-FL transcripts were detected in 26.3% and 21.3% or transcripts, respectively.  The discussion of these variants in this section (and in other sections) does not address the significance of canonical transcripts in these cases.  Leaky splice variants have been reported in various genes and sometimes can be associated with milder phenotypes (or no phenotypes), presumably because the canonical isoforms contribute to a “phenotypic rescue”. Is it known whether there is a threshold of RAD51C deficiency that is tolerated before associated cancer risks become increased?
Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript.
