Reviewer 1 Report
In this paper the authors represents that MACC1 is a negative prognostic marker in esophageal and gastric adenocarcinomas in a large Caucasian cohort. They demonstrate that MACC1 is expressed in 79% of the investigated samples and its presence is coupled with reduced overall survival even in patients with good prognosis. In the in vitro analysis they investigated MACC1 expression in five cell lines and generated a cell line with MACC1 overexpression and a MACC1 knock-down cell line. They found that MACC1 expression does not influence cell proliferation but is correlated with cell migration. Inhibition of MEK1 with selumetinib also reduced cell migration only in MACC1 expressing cells. In an in vivo xenograft model using a control and a MACC1 overexpressing cell line pair they found that MACC1 expression increased metastasis formation and this was reduced by selumetinib treatment.
Comments to authors:
Major:
Based on the cell line RNA and protein data the expression level of MACC1 is highly variable rather than being present or not. Is there a similar variability present among the tissue samples? Please provide the distribution of the IRS scores of the patient cohort and explain how was IRS 5 chosen as cut off?
The authors argue that MACC1 expression did not significantly influenced cell proliferation in the two cell line models. However, cell proliferation was analyzed only in a 24-hour long period even though most cancer cells have a doubling time around 24 hours. In order to draw a conclusion about the proliferation effect a longer (48 or 72 hours) measurement is necessary.
The concentration used from selumetinib both for the cell line experiments (10 microM) and for the animal experiments (50mg/kg) are quite high. Please discuss how the applied concentrations are related to the clinicaly used dosage (75 mg administered orally twice https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02448290) and why not the more efficient MEK1 inhibitor trametinib was used for the experiments. It would be nice to know the selumetinib sensitivity of the two used cell lines.
