Reviewer 1 Report
This paper seeks to develop the notion of a Natural Social Contract (NSC) to enable transformative governance based on co-evolution. In a nutshell, to quote, the NSC “involves the fine-tuning of top-down policy and visions with important bottom-up processes (…), and takes place in a hybrid sphere, in which there is room for collaboration between governments, businesses, knowledge institutions and civil society, among others, characterized by Penta-helix models and based on multiple value creation”. Because of this collaborative, polycentric approach, the papers draw on Evolutionary Governance Theory, and develops a perspective of “co-evolutionary steering of interrelated transitions”. The paper’s aspiration is clear and laudable; yet its elaboration is wanting. My recommendation therefore leans towards a strong ‘revise and resubmit’, based on these five points.
First, my main problem is that the paper reads as a compilation of manifestos, rather than one argumentative thread. From begin to end, the paper presents a mix of literature review and substantive argumentation, plus some examples. My recommendation is to set out a clearer agenda, in which the first part delves into the literature to explain the key issue, key concepts and key dilemmas, and a second part presents solutions and directions meeting the key questions and dilemmas. In brief, the paper warrants more focus, edge and structure.
A second point is the limited elaboration of the social contract, including the natural aspect. A social contract, as explained, consists of a consensual, value-based deal underpinning an institutional governance arrangement. Fig2. moreover, details many aspects. What remains unclear and implicit, however, is the form and operationalisation of such contract. How is the social contract articulated; how is consent manifested? How does one conceive and apply natural ‘design principles’ (669)? This also involves a question of scale: how do agreements at project level chime with societal notions of Social Contracts? How does a project mission contribute to a broader social contract? Much of the joining forces in the hybrid sphere between institutional domains may be primarily instrumental (pooling resources, aligning interests, preventing holdups), below the scope of an (aspired) social contract. What kind of hybrid practices gave shape to the latter? And how then is the aspect of nature taken on board?
A third point concerns the link between theory and practice. The paper’s general, theoretical story is very broad and ambitious, using an extensive, abstract and complex vocabulary. Much of this, moreover, is action-oriented, pointing out major carriers and direction of change. Two cases serve as quick illustrations, loosely underwriting some key statements. This presents, in my view, too much of a gap. The paper could do more to translate the general aspects of transformative governance into more specific project aspects, as an evaluative framework for debating the cases.
Fourth, the section on co-evolution warrants serious re-thinking. Rather than elaborating the notion and development of NSC, this section largely discusses co-evolutionary approaches, with emphasis on discursive aspects (e.g., metaphors, open concepts and master signifiers). While the section aims to uncover the generative mechanisms behind a ‘transition to a Natural Social Contract’, it lacks focus and thread. In the section, NSC is presented as a ‘master signifier’ (345) and the orientation of governance actors (536) towards the ‘well-being economy’ (Table 1); NSC is also associated with alternative business models (443) and integral and robust forms of transition (554-581); NSC is said to need horizonal governance as well as Transformative Social-Ecological Innovation (TSEI). This raises two basic problems. One, the definition and position of NSC in this conceptual medley remains vague. Two, the nature and form of evolutionary variation, selection and dynamics remain unclear. Co-evolution is now associated with all kinds of change-in-tandem, social-sustainable, different institutional actors, discursive items, etc. One wonders whether the notion of transformative change really warrant this evolutionary perspective.
Following on the latter, my final point concerns the relation between transformative change and NSC. One the one hand, the paper trumpets collaboration, joint principles and responsibilities, mutual trust, etc. On the other, the paper also refers to vested (eg ‘carbon’) interests (38, 619), strong voters’ resistance (574), policy holdups (507) and opposition from disadvantaged groups (118). I would suggest the paper can delve deeper into the question of how the NSC can help to meet and overcome such resistances, and to bring forces of change and resistance more in line in the story.
Source citations are sometimes unclear, as they refer to “cf.” items and lack page numbers
