Reviewer 2 Report
I thank the opportunity to evaluate this article, which I really enjoyed reading. The article brings a current theoretical discussion, putting into dialogue the debates of sustainability and public governance, defending the idea of a co-evolutionary governance that can put into practice a "Natural Contract", as proposed by the authors. However, the paper in many parts takes an extreme normative tone that weakens its scientific contribution. It is important that the authors give more emphasis on the scientific evidences of what they defend and anchor their argumentation in such evidences, whether theoretical or empirical. In particular it is recommended:
1) Make the problematization clearer, exploring what motivates the proposed theoretical study and in which previous studies it is anchored. In particular, it is suggested to start from a systematic review on the studies that bring together co-evolutionary governance and the issue of sustainability, discussing what is the scientific advance of the proposition put forward here and how it enriches the current debate on these issues.
2) Remove from the problematization the "normative-prescriptive" tone starting from questions and nuisances that justify the study and from gaps in the literature. I am referring to universal and generalist statements with a "should be" tone that do not fit well with a scientific article, like the one in lines 51 to 54, among many others in the article.
3) Make clearer and more explicit how the article meets the proposed problematic and responds to the gaps found in the debate, including raising the limits of such proposition.
4) Further problematize the discussions/debates that are being mobilized in the article. The theoretical debates and the literature on "social contract", "public governance" and "sustainability" are vast and controversial. It is important that the authors also go into the challenges, the difficulties, the dilemmas in these debates. To mention just one aspect, the text makes little or no reference to the differences and nuances between the realities and contexts of the countries of the North and the South, nor to the relationship between sustainability and social inequalities or between sustainability and democracy. Only in these aspects it is possible to bring several elements that problematize the discussion and show that there is not a single path or model for building public governance that favors sustainability.
5) In terms of the debate on public governance it would be important to insert the discussion of co-evolutionary governance not only ideally, but also exploring the differences between this theoretical proposition and other forms of governance already discussed in the literature as collaborative governance (Ansell and Gash, 2015), for example. Such an approach could help to better see the authors' contributions and the difference of this contribution to what has already been discussed about public governance, a debate that is nowadays quite robust.
6) Empirical cases are very relevant, but are placed as "mere examples" without delving into the challenges and difficulties lived in practice. In this sense, it is not clear the relationship between the propositions presented by the authors in section 4 and the empirical or even theoretical evidences presented in the article. I suggest to improve the interface between the propositions presented and what comes before in the text.
We want to sincerely thank you for your interest in the Sustannability and for sharing your work with us. I hope this review will encourage your work and the improvement of the text.
Best regards

