Reviewer 2 Report
The authors investigate the role of REM sleep, in short vs. long naps, in emotion regulation and memory consolidation for neutral and emotional (i.e. sad) stories.

Although the long nap was designed to be richer in REM sleep, and was, it also differed in other sleep stage amounts, which makes the REM sleep story the authors wish to tell a bit difficult to accept. Although several others studies demonstrate a relationship between REM sleep and emotional memory consolidation, the REM sleep/emotion regulation relationship is not well established, and even the REM/emotional memory consolidation story is most likely overly simplistic (e.g. several studies now show a relationship between NREM sleep and emotional memory as well), and may be restricted to emotionally arousing information.

Although I appreciate the theoretical motivation behind the study, I have several major concerns that should be addressed. First, while it is admirable that the authors did a pre-check to determine that the two stories (neutral and sad) were of equivalent difficulty, they do not comment on why the emotional story was not any better remembered than the neutral story after an hour delay. This immediately calls into question the validity of this story as a typical negative emotional memory task (see below), as it should show the established emotional memory enhancement effect. In the absence of such an effect, the task itself is suspect in terms of how adequately it assesses "emotional memory".

And this brings me to an even more important point. The term “emotional memory” is no longer sufficient. The authors clearly test memory for a sad narrative, and that is all that can be said about this task.

Emotional memory effects, especially those in the sleep literature, are typically driven by the arousal dimension, not the valence dimension, which makes me wonder why the authors chose to test memory for ‘sad’ stories per se. Sadness is not an arousing emotion, so it’s not surprising that the authors fail to detect the expected effects. Clearly, even the authors’ own data show that the material isn’t sufficiently arousing to trigger the typical effects. This doesn’t mean that the results aren’t interesting. They surely are, but they should be interpreted differently – as being about memory for sad events specifically – not negative generally or arousing specifically events. Indeed, if the authors take this valence vs. arousal idea into account, I think they have a much more interesting paper, and one that is quite novel.  The REM density (as opposed to REM amount) finding is reminiscent of some of the older nightmare research, and while preliminary, I think this finding as it pertains to memory for sad events specifically is intriguing. It should be fairly straightforward to fit this finding into the broader emotional memory and sleep literature, but the organizational structure of the article ( in the introduction and discussion sections especially) needs to be changed accordingly.

A few additional comments:

·      There are several differences in the sleep between the short nap and the long nap (N2, TST, etc). Why do the authors settle on REM being the most important influence, as opposed to highlighting the effects associated with the other sleep stages as well? It is interesting that only SWS amount correlated with story performance, suggesting SWS is actually important for the story content.
·      For the long nap and short nap groups I assume the authors collapsed the two story conditions to do the analyses? They don't make that clear in the chart at least.
·      Error bars are very large. Even for memory. It may be that the authors need to increase power. Please comment on this.
·      Please be sure to define SCL sufficiently. Table 4 needs work bc it says it should have mood, arousal, and skin conductance levels before AND after the first audition, and I don't see skin conductance levels
·      The authors talk about breaking the SCL data into 4 quarters during the listening, and then do nothing with that from what I can see. It would be interesting to see this, however.
·      Please consider citing Cunningham et al., 2014, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, as it is one of the few that has used SCR in a sleep, memory, and emotional reactivity study to date
·      Did REM amount correlate with SCL increase?

