Author Response
We have added all the new references suggested by Referee 2 on page 3 of the new manuscript. These includethe ones mentioned in our reply to Referee 1’s point 4 above, and all also the references: Corney98,Mekhov09,leroux10,Mekhov12,Niedenzu13,Lee14. Concerning the referee’s other point, about the suitability of this system to measure weak forces, we first note that the use of Bloch oscillations without a cavity is proving to be an excellent way to measure gravity (e.g. the experiments by G.M. Tino’s group). The sensitivity of their measurements, after many years of development, are only one order of magnitude above our estimated sensitivity, and their measurements take one hour whereas ours should take one second which means it might have applications in rather different situations (e.g. local gravity mapping while flying). Our work is very much still in progress and this paper will not, we hope, be our final word on this subject. Indeed, we point out a possible way forward in the last section that builds on the insight gained from the optomechanics analogy. It seems likely that the homodyne phase measurement regime, where backaction can be reduced, will likely be more favourable when it comes to absolute sensitivity than photon counting type measurement we focus on at the moment. For these reasons we would like to keep the measurement aspects of the paper intact: we would like to advertise them and, perhaps, be a little provocative.
Concerning the question of whether we have taken the effects of higher Bloch bands into effect, our numerical calculations do take this into account. The question of higher Bloch bands is a little subtle when it comes to our analytical calculation done in the Wannier-Stark picture. In the presence of the force, the true eigenstates of the system are no longer the Bloch states but the localized Wannier-Stark states. In the analytical calculation we restrict ourselves to just the ground band Wannier-Stark states. However, even with this approximation we find very good agreement between the numerical and analytical calculations. Concerning the question of radiationpressure forces, we take them into account on the atoms but not on the mirrors.
