Author Response
Our replies to these comments are given in italics below each comment.
The manuscript: Impact of Changes in Owner Leaving Pattern on Separation- Related Behavior in Pet Dogs in the UK is one more paper on the behavior of dogs in the COVID-19 pandemic developed in the last two years. A catchy topic, but its content is unoriginal, bringing nothing new to the pre-pandemic science. It seems that the authors of this study have already tackled this topic exhaustively in their previous articles (*Christley, R.M.; Murray, J.K.; Anderson, K.L.; Buckland, E.L.; Casey, R.A.; Harvey, N.D.; Harris, L.; Holland, K.E.; McMillan, 523 K.M.; Mead, R.; et al. Impact of the first COVID-19 lockdown on management of pet dogs in the UK. Animals 2021, 11, 5, 524 doi:10.3390/ani11010005;
*Holland, K.E.; Owczarczak-Garstecka, S.C.; Anderson, K.L.; Casey, R.A.; Christley, R.M.; Harris, L.; McMillan, K.M.; Mead, 529 R.; Murray, J.K.; Samet, L.; et al. “More Attention than Usual”: A Thematic Analysis of Dog Ownership Experiences in the 530 UK during the First COVID-19 Lockdown. Anim. 2021, Vol. 11, Page 240 2021, 11, 240, doi:10.3390/ANI11010240).
The content of the two papers Reviewer 1 mentions here focussed on the impact of the pandemic on management changes in dogs and on dog owner experiences at a single time point during the most restrictive ‘lockdown’. The current paper is different to either of these, and indeed any other published paper, in that it focusses on changes in separation related behaviour over time, across two different surveys in a longitudinal cohort. The paper is about separation-related behaviour, not about the pandemic. The changes in leaving routine that occurred during the pandemic afforded the opportunity to study what impact this had on a large population of pet dogs over time, that would otherwise have been impossible to capture at such scale. The topic is unique and important in that it adds evidence for an association that has previously been supposed or observed by individual practitioners, but not demonstrated in the published literature, and certainly not on this scale.
The entire first paragraph of Discussion repeats what has already been written in earlier chapters (line 372-379).
Yes, this was purposeful, it provides a summary of the aims & methods to introduce the discussion as not everyone reads papers in a linear fashion. We have not made any changes based on this statement.
Line 382-384   „To our knowledge, this is the first empirical evidence to show a link between changes in dogs’ leaving routines and risk of SRBs.”
The authors take priority in the empirical demonstration of changes in dogs when the routine of the day is disturbed. And changing the routine of the day is a well-known factor influencing the dog's welfare and behavior, including the occurrence of separation anxiety, so the above-quoted sentence should be deleted because it is untrue. The authors have hardly studied all the publications on how dogs behave when daily routines were changed, so the term "first study" is exaggerated.
There is a difference between something that is considered to be “well-known” or folk-knowledge and demonstrable evidence. The sentence quoted here is not untrue, or exaggerated, however, if the Editor wishes us to explore this further, we would kindly request the Reviewer provide us with examples of publications where this has been empirically demonstrated, as we have not found any in our own searches.
Line 444 „This study has provided a unique and valuable insight into…..”  the authors also mark their only unique role in the study, which does not bring new content.
Given the lack of constructive feedback in these statements, no changes have been made based on these comments.
