Reviewer 2 Report
This is a well written and clear manuscript which would be of interest to academics, practitioners and dog owners.
Abstract/simple summary: These are clear and well detailed. My only suggestion is that making it clear why February and October were chosen as survey-points may be beneficial. This is discussed later on but highlighting here would be useful.
Introduction: This is clear and in general provides a good background to the topic (bar a couple of points where more expansion would be beneficial).
Aa little more mention of issues of SRBs from owner perspective (e.g. noise complaints and issues with housing; property damage; decline of human-pet bond) could be beneficial (line 56-57).
It may be helpful to discuss why there is poor owner adherence to programmes to reduce SRB (Line 66-67).
I wasn't sure if line 79-80 was needed- about dogs having returned to pre-pandemic pattern,  I think it is a little dismissive of your own research which is valuable and applicable beyond the pandemic.
Line 96-97- some more detail on the findings of these various surveys would be beneficial similarly to Bowen's study, just so provide a clear background/discussion of literature setting scene for your study.
Methods: This is generally well-detailed.
It may be beneficial to make it clear why cut off of 'at least 5 mins' was used, e.g. justification for this/why this time duration used.
Line 131: There was an error with referencing wanted to flag.
Study periods: It may be useful to spell out a little more here why these survey periods were chosen here, this is covered elsewhere but think could be made clearer here and earlier.
Figure 1- Perhaps just double-check this is referred to in the text. Think either way this figure would benefit a bit of context on why was included/what was showing in context of this study as currently info is a bit generic and didn't totally tie into people's working from home etc.

Results: These were generally well-detailed with clear layout considering scope of results.
However, I don't think the figures were referred to in the text (unless that was the errors highlighted below?)
There were some errors where reference source not found  which would want to look into (line 246; 265; 274; 292; 305; 323 etc).
Line 366-369= I'm not sure it's totally fair to interpret this (the dog not always bringing toy when greeting them) as an anthropomorphic interpretation on the part of the owner- the anthropomorphic interpretation  seems to be from authors of manuscript not owner? They do not seem to state dog is favouring them less unless text was omitted here.
Discussion: The results are appropriately discussed though perhaps more discussion about further study would be beneficial. I felt the discussion about changes in greeting behaviour as an early indicator was interesting and could be expanded.
Some more detail on the application of the findings to practitioners/owners would be beneficial. I do think this is of interest to a range of stakeholders.
