Reviewer 1 Report
The paper by Puengel and colleagues concerns the use of CCR2 / CCR5 antagonists and FGF21 analogues in the treatment of non-aloholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NAFLD and NASH are pathologies of great hepatological interest because, not only its incidence is constantly growing, but also because in 20/30% of cases, NASH can lead to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma or, more rarely, cholangiocarcinoma. Furthermore, currently available therapies for the treatment of NASH are dismal and it is impossible to reduce fibrotic scar, especially in the advanced stages of disease. The paper is clear and well written and the data is very interesting. Furthermore, the results are convincing and support the idea behind the work. The main results obtained by Authors are: 1. Serum concentrations of CCL2 and FGF21 correlate with different disease severity readouts. 2. Using NASH models, in vivo treatments with CCR2/5 inhibitors (CCL2 receptors), with FGF21 analogues or with a mix of them, induce a general remission of the disease and in particular of MoMF recruitment. 3. Similarly to what was seen in the mouse model of NASH (chronic damage), even in case of acute damage with CCl4, the treatment with the same compounds gives a relief of the disease.
I have a few concerns about this job:
·       Since NAFLD/NASH show clear gender differences, with a higher incidence on the male population and since the Authors used only male mice for the in vivo experiments, it would be interesting to evaluate the data of figure 1 (CCL1 and FGF21 secretion and correlation with disease readouts), not only as a single group, but also splitted by gender.
·       To confirm the data in supplementary figures 1 and 2B, since an IHC was done for macrophages (f4-80), I would ask to do IHC for other immune cell populations on liver sections of control and treated mice.
·       A graphical abstract or an explanatory drawing would be very much appreciated, in order to better clarify the mechanism that has been demonstrated.
