Reviewer 3 Report
The study by Puengel et al. describes a two-pronged approach for alleviating NASH and aspects of acute liver injury by targeting CCR2/5 and FGF21.  The data includes human patient data with NAFLD/NASH at different fibrotic stages, multiple mouse models using the CDAHFD diet, and an acute injury CCl4 model.  Overall, the study is well designed in describing how combined therapy may be useful for targeting metabolic (FGF21) and inflammatory (CCR2/5) components of inflammatory fatty liver disease.  The addition of characterization of blood and liver immune cells adds a mechanistic approach which is a strength of this study.  That being said, there are areas the authors need to address to improve their study:
1)      My biggest concern with the data as presented has to do with the CDAHFD model and the conclusions drawn from it.  Did all of the CDAHFD groups have similar consumption of the diet?  All of the treatments had a weight drop after the treatment started in week 6.  In particular the combined group went from ~24g to ~19g from weeks 6-8.  This supports that they likely could have had reduced food intake following treatment.  Without reporting this data, the conclusion could be made that all effects in the CDAHFD model were due to changes in food consumption, which reduced their exposure to the CDAHFD diet, and therefore showed anti-inflammatory and reduced hepatic lipid deposition effects compared to the vehicle group.  Food consumption must be reported to alleviate this potential alternative hypothesis.
2)      For human data, it would have strengthened this report to have BMI/sex-matched control patients and report their CCL2, FGF21 and CK18 values.
3)      Validation of CCL2/5 inhibition should be shown by showing a reduction of downstream signaling such as MAPK.  The other possibility would be to show that CCL2 and CCL5 mRNA were unchanged in liver following treatment with inhibitors and then subsequently adding this data to supplemental figure 1E.
4)      Was there any mortality in the CCR2/5i + FGF21 groups?  Their weights at 12 weeks appear to be dropping?  Was this weight drop significant compared to eh CDAHFD Vhc group?  Was there any change in appearance or overall well being of the mice?  This needs to be reported in the text.
5)      With the protective effects of FGF21v for some measures in the CCl4 model, is it possible that FGF21v treatment changes metabolism of CCl4 by changing cytochrome p450 activity (such as CYP2E1)?  This needs to be checked for both CCR2/5i and FGF21v groups to ensure conclusions of these groups are appropriate.
