Reviewer 2 Report
Dear authors,

This is a well-written manuscript summarizing experiments carried out in the last author's group. The authors describe the challenges of echo atom interferometry. In particular, the experiments to determine gravitational acceleration g and the atomic fine structure constante due to measurement of the atomic recoil frequency.
Some parts of the manuscript are more or less word by word copies of previous paper.  It is up to the editor how to handle that.
However this is a review paper of previous works and with some reworking of the manuscript and fixing some small problems I support publication of this manuscript.


Please find below further comments:

14: "exquisite sensitivity"  normal accelerometers provide better performances and are less complex.

page 8  8th line form bottom: brackets are missing the formula

79: shot-noise limits of < 1 mrad....  please cite
102: 1600 photon momenta...  please double check that number and citation. Is that a coherent beam splitter?
128: ...appreciable atom loss characteristic of Raman AIs....   comment: Raman AIs are normally not atom shot noise limited.

128-130: ...Spatial overlap is the only condition required to create an interference pattern,..
Who would the interference pattern look like if there where just classical beamsplitters? Focusing atoms by micro lenses (standing light wave). Have there been Leggett Garg test?

Formular 18  looks like that there is something wrong!

Figure 4: I don´t get the error bars. They look way to big.

341: ...that a 100-fold increase.... please cite

426: ...to apply a a near-resonant....  typo

536, 573: .... all decoherence mechanisms...  could that also be dephasing? please be specific.

Figure10: error bars? It is not obvious that the error bars are so big and the measured/averaged data points line up perfectly next to each other. I think the paper would benefit a lot if you could comment on the error bars.

706: tip: use a non magnet accelerometer, otherwise you will not be able to distinguish between vibrations and magnetic fields

723: ....is not expected not to affected...   typo?

731: tip:to get the position, one has to integrate 2 times. A seismometer which is sensitive to velocity is maybe a better choice?

778: What means MGE?
