Author Response
We appreciate your review of our revised manuscript, constructive comments, and suggestions, which have helped us to improve the manuscript. Our responses to your comments are as follows.

1) I requested a major revision including the use of miRNA-resistant exogenous PGRMC1 expression (altered codon usage) to demonstrate that lack of PGRMC1 attenuation will prevent decidualization. That new experimental result is what elevated the required changes to a major revision. The revised manuscript as presently resubmitted is a minor revision. This is a critical point because the very title claims that PGRMC1 downregulation is required for decidualization. This requires stronger evidence than that currently presented. Furthermore, the required experiment is technically not challenging. The authors could consider whether an inducible miRNA-resistant PGRMC1 promoter could be designed. The fact that PGRMC1 levels fall does not mean that low PGRMC1 levels are required. This may be only correlation. Before such a claim is published in the scientific literature, it must be supported by convincing evidence. Aspiration to clarify this in future papers does not merit publication of the present paper.
>> As you pointed out, we infer that downregulation of PGRMC1 may be necessary for decidualization to proceed. To clarify this point, we further attempted to overexpress PGRMC1 by introducing expression vectors into primary ESCs under various conditions using lipofection and calcium phosphate transfection methods, as you suggested. Unfortunately, for reasons unknown, we were unable to establish ESCs overexpressing PGRMC1. In the present study, we found that not only knockdown of PGRMC1 but also functional inhibition with inhibitors promotes ESC decidualization in vitro. Furthermore, in a previous report, overexpression of PGRMC1 suppressed ESCs differentiation (Ref. 19). These results indicate that decreased PGRMC1 in the endometrium may be associated with accelerated dedifferentiation. As you suggested, we have changed the title significantly because further evidence was not available. We plan to establish a model of miR-resistant PGRMC1 overexpression using several ESCs cell lines to investigate the role of PGRMC1 in decidualization, and if possible, we would be happy to make this our next research topic.

2) Lines 142-3.“Data of cell culture are expressed as the mean ± SD from three independent experiments with at least repeated two times.” Change to:　Data of cell culture are expressed as the mean ± SD from three independent experiments. All reported results were observed in at least two independent experiments.
>> Thank you for correcting the sentence. The description has been corrected in accordance with your suggestion (page 4, lines 141-142).

3) Line 259. PGRMC1-independe (add t)
>> The error has been corrected (page 8, line 257).

4) Lines 263-267: “Because the effect of AG-205 and PGRMC1 knock-down on decidualization was common in the present study, these findings further support for a role for PGRMC1 downregulation in promoting ESC decidualization during the secretory phase.” The reviewer does not understand the sentence.
>> The description has been modified to the following (page 8, lines 261-266). “Although we cannot exclude the possible non-specific action of AG-205 on ESCs, the effect of AG-205 treatment and PGRMC1 knockdown promoted in vitro decidualization. These findings suggested that PGRMC1 downregulation may promote ESC decidualization during the secretory phase.

5) There are two natural sentences here. However, as described above AG-205 is not a specific inhibitor of PGRMC1. [full stop, new sentence] Further study of PGRMC1 knockout on decidualization is needed.
>> As noted, the sentence has been separated and corrected in accordance with your suggestion (page 9, lines 280-281).

6) The salient point concerning the ubiquitination events is that they are correlated for other proteins with proteasome-mediated degradation. Sabbir’s results (ref 31) imply that this also holds for PGRMC1. The new text does not conceptually link PTMs with PGRMC1 protein stability, which is the only reason they should be mentioned. To be clear, protein levels can be mediated by altered rates of transcription, translation, or degradation. This new text should be discussing the possibility of the latter also contributing to the observed effects, as well as the effects of mRNA level that the paper pursues.
>> As you pointed out, we did not explain the relationship between PGRMC1 stability and post-transcriptional regulation of the protein. We have added the following description (page 9, lines 304-308). ”These reports suggested that PGRMC1 protein levels can be modulated by changes in the rates of transcription, translation, and degradation. Therefore, further studies would be needed to clarify the possible involvement of the post-translational modification and degradation that may regulate PGRMC1 protein stability in ESCs during decidualization.”
