Reviewer 1 Report
Tsuru et al. demonstrate that PGRMC1 abundance levels are higher in proliferative phase versus secretory phase endometrial patient biopsies (fig.1). In primary endometrial stem cell (ESC) culture they demonstrate that chemical induction (by db-cAMP/P4) of pseudo-decidualization in culture is accompanied by decreased PGRMC1 protein levels (fig.2). In primary ESCs they argue that reduction of PGRMC1 levels by siRNA, or inhibition of PGRMC1 function by AG-205, both lead to increased abundance of decidualization markers IGFBP1 and PRL upon db-cAMP/P4-induced decidualization (Fig.3). There is some concern about the specificity of the AG-205 inhibitor here and throughout, which weakens the deductive reasoning and is discussed below. If higher PGRMC1 levels are indeed critical for the suppression of decidualization, as is reasoned by the authors, then it should be possible to maintain PGRMC1 levels artificially to inhibit decidualization, as discussed below. There is also concern about the statistical evaluation of this result, and others of same designe, as discussed below. In Fig.4 the authors argue that decidualization markers are induced by both db-cAMP and db-cAMP/P4, and that therefore P4 is not involved in the PGRMC1 response. The experiemtnal design for this conclusion is problematic, as described below. The authors go on to show that expogenous expression of miR-98 lowers PGRMC1 abundance levels (a more apt description than the fuzzy description of “PGRMC1 downregulation”, which could be by a number of mechanisms as discussed below).

This paper pursues an important theme. Unfortunately, the quality of experimental design and results processing are somewhat problematic. The work would be worthwhile publishing in a revised format, where it should be a well cited publication. Therefore, a resubmission after major revision is recommended. Secific and detailed comments follow.

The introduction succinctly provides background relevant for the following research description.
In general, the manuscript refers often to PGRMC1 expression or downregulation. These are fuzzy terms for proteins. It is much preferable to refer to protein abundance, and changes in abundance. Such changes may occur at the translational or post-translational level. Translational level changes can be due to changed levels of transcription, to altered mRNA stability (such as that proposed here for miR-98), or to altered efficiency of translation of a steady state mRNA pool. The authors are strongly advised to change from e.g. ‘expression’ to ‘abundance’ throughout.

Additionally, the methods do not say that all results were repeated at least once, and that a representative results figure is presented. Therefore, the reviewer assumes that experiments have only been performed once. The entire set of experiments needs to be replicated to demonstrate reproducibility before it can be considered to publish these results.

Line 24. AG-205. The authors must refer to the fact that AG-205 is not specific for PGRMC1, contrary to many citations in the literature (such as would be the case here, if uncorrected). Cite PMID: 34944026, PMID: 34680104, PMID: 32924377. Sensitivity of a phenomenon to AG-205 is consistent with possible PGRMC1 involvement, but does not demonstrate PGRMC1 involvement.

It is also suggested throughout to use “AG-205” (the correct name for the reagent: https://www.sigmaaldrich.com cat#: a1487) rather than AG205 (often incorrectly used in the literature).

Line 50. “(10-12); however,” should be a full stop. Two discrete sentences “(10-12). However,”

Methods.
Appropriate human ethics approvals were obtained.

Lines 76-78. Statistical sample sizes were unfavourably small. (n= 3 or 4). The methods could describe that all subjects were ethnically Japanese/Asian (or otherwise).

Lines 88-98. Cell culture. What characterisation was performed to confirm the identity of cells as ESCs? In general, there is very little detail on these primary cultured lines. How long are they held in culture? Are they stored cryogenically? How are they re-seeded into culture?

Lines 121-133. What percentage acrylamide were the SDS PAGE gels. For what length of time and at what voltage settings was electrophoretic transfer to PVDF? In what device?

Line 126-7. Give the catalogue number of the secondary antibody.

Line 131. On what device was ECL light detected? What were the device settings? How was pixel saturation dealt with?

Line 132. Which ImageJ plug-in was used for quantification?

Lines 134-137.
Result errors should not be expressed as SEM, but as standard deviation (s.d.). SEM is a function of how many measurements were made, and does not reflect sample variability. S.d. reflects variability between replicate measurements. All results should show s.d. error bars.

Line 150. The legend to fig. 1. inappropriately ends with “2.2. Downregulation of PGRMC1 During ESC in vitro Decidualization.” This seems to be the next section heading, in which case it should follow a line break, and say: “3.2. Downregulation of PGRMC1 During ESC in vitro Decidualization.”
All subsequent section header numbers in results should be modified to accommodate the new section.

Lines 153-156, Figure 2. We are told in the methods that primary cell cultures were obtained from 3 patients (see lines 88-89). Figure 2 seems to depict just one cell culture (which is not even named), with 4 replicates of each measurement. The result must be shown for at least each ESC cell culture (each culture or patient named separately) obtained from each patient to demonstrate that the described results are representative of multiple patients, and not potentially atypical results from an atypical patient. This result must be demonstrated in a substantively convincing manner.

Were primary cultures used directly, or were they stored cryogenically? If the latter, the freezing and resuscitation conditions are critical for ESC-like properties.

Line 158/Fig. 2. The western blot (also Fig.3) result must show the entire molecular weight range (e.g. in supplemental data), including MW markers. PGRMC1 is known to be Sumoylated or ubiquitinylated and then degraded by the proteasome pathway, which lead to higher molecular weight species (PMID: 31067491). The latter could well contribute to alterations in PGRMC1 abundance cited by this study. It is important that the involvement of the ubiquitin pathway contribution be either quantified or discarded in well controlled experiments to justify the title of the paper.

Nine PGRMC1 lysines are known to be ubiquitinated (https://www.phosphosite.org/proteinAction.action?id=5744&showAllSites=true). Individual mutation of these residues could stabilise PGRMC1 levels to reduce decidualization if miR-98 is only partially responsible for reducing PGRMC1 levels. In fact, proteasomal degradation could be much more important that miRNA reduction of the transcript in the reduction of PGRMC1 levels during decidualization. It is important to determine whether these mechanisms are both operating. At the very least this mechanism merits detailed discussion in that section. PGRMC1 protein instability could be the dominant effect involved, with miRNA transcript regulation playing only a minor part.

Line 163. Change 3.2. to 3.3.

Lines 164-172. This cell culture experiment also seems to be based upon just one primary cell culture, split into replicates. I am uncertain because the methods do not explain how the experiment was performed. Cell culture methods must be much more clearly explained so that the reader can reconstruct each exact experiment.

Lines 178-9. If PGRMC1 down-regulation is critical, it should be possible to perturb decidualization by expression of an exogenous PGRMC1 protein. This could be accomplished by making an expression plasmid encoding a codon-altered PGRMC1 gene, and cotransfecting this in a controlled matrix design with siRNA. If siRNA-resistant PGRMC1 levels are able to inhibit decidualization it would provide convincing evidence in favour of the hypothesis that lowered PGRMC1 is required for decidualization, and is perhaps even a trigger. A codon-altered PGRMC1 expression vector would cost just several hundred dollars from a provider such as Genscript, so the experiment is eminently achievable.

PGRMC1 levels are also controlled by proteolysis, mediated by the ubiquitin proteasome system as described above.

Fig.3. vs. Fig.4.
Notably, Fig. 4. lacks the western blot equivalent to Fig.3A, showing that siRNA indeed depleted PGRMC1 levels.

Critically, these figures compare the effects of two variables each, and therefor one way ANOVA is not the appropriate test. Assuming binomial distribution, a two-way ANOVA is required for these experiments.

Line 189-96. The paragraph describes a result showing that the results are independent of P4. However, the control structure of comparisons is incorrect. The simplest direct comparison would be db-cAMP/P4 vs. db-cAMP to permit the argument the authors are presenting. However, the effects of P4 in the absence of db-cAMP would also require control in cells without db-cAMP, +/- P4. The statistical significance of any result would be evaluated using multivariate analysis.

Line 204. Change 3.3. to 3.4.

Line 207: “The miRNA target prediction database, miRDB (http://www.mirdb.org), was screened to identify miRNAs with potential to interact with PGRMC1.” miR-98 is already known to regulate PGRMC1. The results of PMID: 22492871 and PMID: 21109987 MUST be cited here. This is not a novel finding.


Discussion.
The discussion must qualify the results of Salsano et al. who used AG-205 to inhibit PGRMC1. There was no control in PGRMC1 genomic/CRISPR KO cells (not si/miRNA KO) to demonstrate that effects induced by AG-205 were due to PGRMC1.

Line 261. mechanisms HAVE not (plural mechanisms)

Lines 261-262. “In the present study, we showed that microRNA-mediated PGRMC1 regulation during the process of decidualization.” This is confusingly worded. Suggest change to “In the present study, we showed that microRNA-mediated the regulation of PGRMC1 abundance during the process of decidualization.” (if this is what is meant)

Lines 271-76. This is very long and burdens the reader. Always make new sentences when possible. Suggest change to;
“Further study is required to determine the relationship between miR-98-mediatd PGRMC1 regulation and pregnancy. Comparison of the miR-98/PGRMC1 abundance in proliferative and secretory phases of endometrial biopsy may contribute to the diagnostic prediction of uterine receptivity for embryo implantation. Furthermore, controlling their expression may support the improvement of IVF (NOT IFV) outcome.
Define IVF at first use.

Lines 281-5. PGRMC1 (Hpr6.6) increased the rate of cell death (in a non-apoptotic mechanism) in MCF-7 cancer cells in response to H2O2 (PMID: 14523988). That could be discussed here in terms of mechanism.

Lines 286-287. Enunciate what kind of role(s) PGRMC1 may be involved in (up/down regulation, when, how?). Suggest observations that may be able to discriminate between different possibilities.

