Author Response
Reviewer #2:
This paper reports on findings from three studies, aiming to assess the construct validity and predictive validity of pathological video game use. The paper is impressive in scope and provides a great amount of detail regarding the various hypothesized relationships between pathological video gaming and other correlates. This is an important part of establishing construct validity for a test. However, it is unclear whether the study truly accomplishes its goal of establishing construct validity and predictive validity, although it claims in the conclusions to have done so.

One issue, to begin with, is that it is unclear what the authors are aiming to establish the construct validity of? Normally, construct validity is established for a test as an indication of how well it captures what it intends to capture. In this study this is a bit unclear, as two different tests are used. If the study intends to provide construct validity of a test, then it needs to specify which test. However, I get the impression that what the authors aim for is something like construct validity in broader terms (and thus pertaining to both tests?) - essentially theory validation? This should be specified somewhere, as it is quite an important distinction.

Moving on, a study of construct validity in my mind is chiefly a contribution to theory building – it is a matter of establishing the extent to which inferences made on the basis of a proposed theory might be valid reflections of the intended construct. With this in mind, I feel that the present study would benefit from considering, peripherally, some alternative theories than the one proposed.  At present, only one interpretation is offered for each hypothesis and, typically, the most straightforward interpretation is presented. While this is perhaps reasonable given the aim of the study, it is also problematic because it ignores the amount of critical work that has emerged on this topic in recent years. In doing so, it fails to convincingly explain why the proposed theory should be used over other, alternative, theories. One consequence of this is that the results are left hanging; they are not very well connected to some of the recent critical developments in this area. Although the results presented are impressive and many hypotheses supported, it is unclear how precisely these results might contribute to the continued study of pathological video gaming, given that the theoretical foundation for these hypotheses have been subjected to some critiques which in this paper remain unmentioned and unanswered. While the paper provides an excellent discussion around the conceptual dilemmas of labeling problematic gaming as an ‘addiction’ (page 2), and justifies well its choice of the term ‘pathological video gaming’, the same level of reflexivity and critical awareness is also needed in regards to the theory and interpretation of results.
We agree with the reviewer that the term construct validity was not used in the most appropriate way in our earlier draft.  We did not, however, feel that this manuscript was the best place to lay out all of the nuances of the issue, especially since our data could not cleanly resolve the questions.  Therefore we have removed the term, and instead tried to be clearer that we are providing some tests of the construct of pathological gaming.

Page 2 line 34: “Although some researchers have provided descriptive statistics about the pathological video-gamers (Chiu, Lee, & Huang, 2004; Durkee et al., 2012; Fisher, 1994 ; Griffiths, 2000; Griffiths & Hunt, 1998), empirical evidence for the construct validity of pathological video-gaming is still needed. Many of the prior studies (e.g., Chiu et al., 2004; Fisher, 1994; Griffiths & Hunt, 1998) were conducted with a single sample of adolescents between 12 and 18. Hence, the construct validity demonstrated in those studies may not generalize to other groups”
I am a bit concerned about the references to old studies here – such as Fisher and Griffiths & Hunt. Video gaming has undergone rather extreme changes since 1998 and, arguably, even since 2004. It might be useful for the sake of your argument to find more recent studies to cite.
We have added additional references.

Second, while it is certainly true that construct validity of pathological video-gaming is needed, no study up until this point has presented adequate evidence of construct validity according to the standards as advocated by Cronbach & Meehl (1955) or Loevinger (1957). I would therefore carefully suggest that the authors re-write this section as to not make it sound like prior studies have provided evidence of construct validity – at best, some studies have provided partial evidence of construct validity, but even this is inadequate because of some serious conceptual and methodological issues. More on this will follow later as it is perhaps the main issue of the study – the term construct validity is used a bit too loosely. Construct validity really needs to be properly defined at the outset of the study – in this review my understanding draws mostly on Cronbach & Meehl and Loevinger as above, but recent movements have argued for alternative definitions.
As noted, we have removed the framing of this study being to test construct validity.

Page 3 line 1: “Furthermore, available evidence suggestive of the construct validity of pathological video-gaming is rarely built on known psychological or behavioral issues associated with pathological video-gaming. “
I am curious about this statement. In my understanding, almost all available evidence suggestive of the construct validity of pathological video-gaming, and a majority of the studies on this topic, are built precisely on known psychological or behavioral issues associated with pathological video-gaming. I would argue that studies of correlations between psychological or psychiatric issues and some problem-gaming-construct are over-represented in this field of study. I wonder what the authors would argue that the current body of evidence is built upon?
We agree that this is a curious statement, and wonder what we meant by it when we originally wrote it.  It has therefore been removed.

Page 3 line 3: “According to the DSM-IV-TR (2000), substance dependence or abuse or pathological gambling is often associated with antisocial personality disorder or aggressive behaviors. Given that the definition of pathological video-gaming in this study shares the similar conceptual domains of pathology in the above disorders, it is expected that pathological video game players would show psychological and behavioral traits similar to pathological gambling or substance dependency or abuse, including antisocial or aggressive behaviors, hostility, or preference for violence, if the construct is valid.”

Here is a key sentence for this study – excellently phrased. It makes clear the theoretical foundation for the study, which is that pathological video-gaming is considered to bear conceptual similarity to substance abuse or pathological gambling. This means that any subsequent confirmatory validation only pertains to this particular theory (if I understood the authors purpose correctly), not necessarily to the latent construct for which this theory is only one possible interpretation – this distinction should be made clearer in a study of construct validity and will be facilitated by the definition of construct validity as suggested above.
We have removed the construct validity frame, and have also added additional discussion of alternative theoretical frames through which our data could be viewed in the general discussion.

Page 3 line 11: “To test predictive validity, it is necessary to study pathological game players’ actual responses to playing video games. Tolerance or withdrawal among alcohol or drug users is often considered partly conditioned with heightened responses to stimuli associated with the substance, such as the sight of drug paraphernalia. These heightened emotional and psychological responses have been called “cue reactivity”. In a similar vein, pathological video game players may also show heightened reactivity to video-gaming. […] Based on these findings, we can hypothesize that if pathological video gaming is similar to other addictions, pathological players would have heightened emotional responses to video games and rate the games to be more exciting, fun or stimulating, relative to non-pathological players.”

This is indeed a good point and represents the sort of hypothesis-driven theory testing that a validation study should contain. Based on the theoretical definition of pathological video-gaming we might assume behavioral correlates similar to other pathological behaviors – such findings would indeed strengthen the construct validity of this proposed interpretation.
However, as Smith (2005) has argued: “It is important to remember that Cronbach and Meehl’s (1955) emphasis was not on recording a few successfully predicted correlations. Because construct validation involved basic theory testing, they emphasized principles for making inferences about the meaning of test scores or experimental outcomes. Since their early contribution, methodologists have periodically sought to remind investigators of this crucial perspective.” And: “[This] would help prevent us from viewing construct validation as collecting a series of stamps: a content validity correlation, a criterion-related validity correlation, and so on.”.
I believe these quotes by Smith once again emphasizes the need for some nuance as to what this study might contribute. His paper can be found here:
Smith, G. (2005). On Construct Validity: Issues of Method and Measurement. Psychological Assessment, 17(4), 396-408.
We have tried to make this point clearer.

Moving on to discuss the specific studies:

As regards Study 1 – I wonder when this data was collected? Some of the data seems to have been used as long ago as 2004 (Page 4, line 10)? As mentioned previously, the gaming industry is an industry that has undergone some dramatic changes since early 2000 and data collected back then might not be very representative in today’s environment. Attitudes and access to video games have changed and increased, often for the better according to representative data, which could have some implications for a study where self-report measures were used to indicate a ‘less desirable’ behavior like pathological gaming. This needs to be reported and, if appropriate, discussed in the limitations section (which is currently missing?).
The reviewer is correct, the data were collected quite a while ago.  This has now been made more explicit and a discussion of the limitations has been expanded to include this issue.

Page 4 line 20: “Seven items from the GMHQ assessed pathological gaming. These items were modifications of the DSM-IV criteria for pathological gambling, (similar to those used by Fisher, 1994 and Griffiths & Hunt, 1998). Participants were considered to be pathological video gamers if they answered yes to at least four of the seven items. This cut point follows DSM-style criteria of requiring at least half of the diagnosable symptoms to be present.“

While this cut off is certainly in line with DSM and common practice, it is also potentially problematic because a majority of the criteria used do not actually capture problematic engagement. Rather, they try to mirror behavioral manifestations as observed in relation to substance abuse or pathological gambling. This has been a point of contention in the field for some time, as can be derived from the following 4 studies, and makes the operationalization problematic:

<span style="f
