Reviewer 2 Report
This paper presents results from a longitudinal study of sexual subjectivity in university-age students who were followed over the course of 1 year. The normative development of sexual health is an important and understudied topic, and the Introduction to this paper provides a good overview of the theoretical work in this area. I have four recommendations for improving the paper.

First, the attrition between Time 1 and Time 2 was substantial (40% of participants), and this is handled using list-wise deletion. That is, any one who did not complete both assessments was not included in the analyses. List-wise deletion can lead to serious bias in results. Analyses should be re-done using a more sophisticated method for handling missing data, such as multiple imputation or full-information maximum likelihood (Shafer & Graham, 2002, Psychological Methods).

Second, potential participants were "approached at a university campus" during orientation week. What percentage of people who were approached agreed to participate? How broadly representative of the university population (or the university-age population) is the sample? From the relatively high percentage of non-heterosexual participants, there seems to be some selection bias. At the very least, the Discussion should consider how generalizable these results are.

Third, although longitudinal data can be a quite powerful tool for understanding change and development, the current analyses squander some of that power. The regression results presented in Table 2 test whether sexual behaviors that participants already experienced by Time 1 predicted facets of sexual subjectivity at Time 2, controlling for sexual subjectivity at Time 1. Why would behavior that has already happened contribute to a re-ordering of individuals over the course of the next year? It seems that a more interesting and direct test of the longitudinal effects of sexual behavior on sexual subjectivity would test whether new sexual behaviors (that is, sexual behaviors experienced between Time 1 and Time 2) predict change in sexual subjectivity from Time 1 to Time 2. Moreover, the reverse paths -- from sexual subjectivity to future behavior -- are also not tested in this paper. More generally, I think the putative timescale of effects of behavior on sexual subjectivity needs more theoretical elaboration. Are behaviors in early adolescence (before age 16), for example, expected to continue to influence the trajectory of sexual subjectivity regardless of later sexual behavior? That seems to be the model implied by the analyses, but it is never explicitly specified.

Fourth, each analysis is conducted for each subscale separately, but (with the exception of sexual body-esteem) the scales are consistently (if moderately) intercorrelated. I think it would be informative to test whether associations with age or sexual experience group are operating through a general underlying factor of sexual subjectivity versus are unique to specific facets. The shift to a latent factor approach would have the added benefit of allowing the authors to use FIML to account for missing data at T2, and they could thus use their entire sample.

Fifth, one set of results seems quite contradictory: sense of entitlement to sexual self-pleasure decreased, on average, from Time 1 to Time 2, but sense of entitlement to sexual self-pleasure was positively correlated with age. How do the authors make sense of these result, as participants are one year older at Time 2? This contradiction underscores my concern about attrition (point #1); I wonder if the seeming decrease from Time 1 to Time 2 is an artifact of attrition.

Finally, on a selfish note, I wrote an extensive review piece on this topic (Harden, 2014, "A Sex-Positive Framework for Reseach on Adolescent Sexuality" in Perspectives on Psychological Science), and I would, of course, be happy if the authors included a reference to my paper in their Introduction or Discussion.
