Reviewer 2 Report
This study provides imaging of the antiviral protein IFITM3 at endogenous levels and at super-resolution in the context of influenza virus infection. They show that IFITM3 clusters within 1 h of influenza virus infection, prior to increases in the protein’s levels as induced by the infection.  These IFITM3 clusters were found to correlate with restriction of virus infection and to co-localize with incoming virus.  Further, they observed that the IFITM3 clusters that form early in infection are at early endosomes and progress to late endosomes and lysosomes as infection proceeds, consistent with IFITM3 directing incoming virus to degradative compartments. While there are important new insights provided by this work, the manuscript can be improved in terms of data presentation and referencing the existing literature on the IFITM proteins.
Figure 1 should be labeled as to what treatments are used in panels A-E.  As it is now, the figure on its own cannot possibly be interpreted without the legend.
Figure 2A:  The siRNA control should be shown.  qPCR is acceptable, but an IFITM3 Western would be better, particularly since the antibody is readily available.
Figure 2B:  These data need to be improved.  The IFITM3 blot shows wide variability with no pattern from one hour to the next, and yet the conclusion is that there is no change in IFITM3 levels during this time period.
Figure 3A:  Why is there so much IFITM3 present in the uninfected cells?  This does not appear to increase post infection as was shown previously.
Figure 4: Uninfected control should be shown in the main text.
Figure 4: Label the figure so that it can be interpreted independent of the legend.
Figure 5A/C: Label the figure so that it can be interpreted independent of the legend.
Figure 7:  I am not sure that this figure is a useful addition to the paper as it suffers from exactly the problems that the authors claim to overcome in their study, i.e., the use of overexpressed IFITM3 and an overexpressed Rab11 marker protein, both of which may show unnatural localization due to the overexpression.
Lines 227/228:  This sentence is misleading as the references cited are not contradictory, nor are they unclear as to IFITM3 possessing antiviral activity.  Furthermore, the authors need to examine the literature more carefully, as previous studies have indeed shown that IFITM3 knockdown in A549 cells increases influenza virus infection, e.g., Lin, Cell Reports, 2013.
Since this paper is primarily studying IFITM localization and clustering at endosomes/lysosomes it should reference studies in which endocytic localization motifs of the IFITMs were identified and characterized (Jia, Cell Microbiol, 2014; Chesarino, JBC, 2014; Li, JBC, 2015)
Line 65 states that subsequent studies have failed to confirm an association between SNP rs12252 and severe influenza.  This may be true, but far more studies have confirmed this link than have refuted it. Further, the studies which failed to find an association were generally performed in populations in which the SNP is almost non-existent.  Additionally, a second SNP in the IFITM3 promoter has also been linked to severe flu. For a review of these studies, see Zani, Current Clin Microbiol Reports, 2018, though the primary articles should be cited.
Lines 67-73  The inhibition of virus membrane fusion by IFITM3 has been attributed to the presence of a palmitoylated amphipathic helix within IFITM3 (Chesarino, EMBO Reports, 2017). This helix and neighboring palmitoylation sites are among the most highly conserved residues among IFITMs from all species.  Additionally, the role of cholesterol in IFITM3’s mechanism of action has been largely disproven by the field, and reference 52 seems to have been misused in line 73.
