Author Response
Response to Reviewer 1 Comments

Point 1. No supported data was shown to identify the eel eyes play a significant role in sexual maturation. Most results were found in association. Authors should performed the eye-specific knock out eel or ESR1 knock out or ESR2 knock out eel to clarify the role of ESR1 in Brain-Pituitary-Gonad pathway and eye maturation, ESR2 in the ovary development.
Response 1: This study aimed to elucidate the relationship between estradiol (E2) and the unexplained phenomenon in which the eyes of Anguillid eels enlarge during sexual maturation. To the best of our knowledge, no previous study has investigated the phenomenon in Anguillid eels or its relationship with the reproductive axis. Salmon pituitary extract (SPE) is the only known way to induce sexual maturation in Anguillid eels, including the Japanese eels used in this study, and the underlying mechanisms or characteristics of the 2,3-bisphosphoglyceric acid pathway have not been reported in Anguillid eels. Moreover, although SPE treatment may result in fertilized eggs, successfully hatching of these eggs is rare. Further, since an appropriate diet is not yet available for the larvae, it is currently impossible to apply knockout technology to Anguillid eels. If seed production methods are developed in the future, we agree that the study that you suggested should be conducted.

Point 2. Recently, several literatures discussed about the generation of gene knockout fishes or eel with TALENs should be presented and discussed.
Response 2: According to this comment, we added more details explain in discussion (Line 318-328).

Point 3. All the mRNA data should provide the statistic information and detail information about the numbers.
Response 3: According to this comment, we added detail statistic information in figure caption and supplement date, respectively.

Point 4. ESR-α (Line 306) and ESR-β (Line 307) should be corrected as ESR1 and ESR2.
Response 4: We have changed ESR1 and ESR2 to ESR-α and ESR-β according to the comments by the reviewer.

