Reviewer 1 Report
In this paper, authors present a different approach for real pheromone representation, whose purpose is to use for robot indirect communication and coordination. The main highlight of the manuscript is the introduction of the ferrofluid solution, its deposition and magnetization system, which is able to represent successfully pheromone characteristics. This work presents certain references for the mechanism research of biological swarms, especially for the communication technology of bionic swarm robots. There are some minor issues that need to be addressed before consideration of acceptance.
Communication technology is extremely important for swarm robotic systems. Scholars who study swarm robots are trying to obtain parameters such as the interactive range of individual. How does the composition and proportion of substances proposed by authors for making artificial pheromones affect the range of interaction?
The analysis and interpretation of Fig.3 should be more specific. Fig.3 wants to show the characteristics pheromone characteristics of locality and diffusion, so some important details need to be explained to support the point of this article. For the relative position between the substance and the sensor, the magnetic field intensity near and far from the sensor should be symmetrical about the 0 point, but it is not this case from Fig.3. Here, it is necessary to combine the characteristics of the substance itself and physical properties to explain the reason for the asymmetry. For the distance range (-10 ~ -6) close to the sensor, there is a significant decrease in the magnetic field intensity, what is the reason for this?
The evaporation characteristic of pheromone proposed in this paper is an important manifestation that is different from previous studies. However, the proposal of new materials or substances would be often challenged by the environment and questioned by peers. Whether the author has considered the working conditions or environment of the material, such as durability, temperature adaptability and so on?
Regarding the composition and proportion of substance, it is recommended that authors add chart information, which will be easier to understand and read.
