Author Response
Dear reviewer.
Thank you for all your valuable feedback. We have worked to address all your concerns on our paper. Please find below the response (in blue) to each of your comments.

Communication technology is extremely important for swarm robotic systems. Scholars who study swarm robots are trying to obtain parameters such as the interactive range of individual. How does the composition and proportion of substances proposed by authors for making artificial pheromones affect the range of interaction?Subsection 4.1 "Composition of ferrofluid pheromone" was improved to include a paragraph on the effect of solution concentration on magnetic field (Please see third paragraph of subsection 4.1).

The analysis and interpretation of Fig.3 should be more specific. Fig.3 wants to show the characteristics pheromone characteristics of locality and diffusion, so some important details need to be explained to support the point of this article. For the relative position between the substance and the sensor, the magnetic field intensity near and far from the sensor should be symmetrical about the 0 point, but it is not this case from Fig.3. Here, it is necessary to combine the characteristics of the substance itself and physical properties to explain the reason for the asymmetry. For the distance range (-10 ~ -6) close to the sensor, there is a significant decrease in the magnetic field intensity, what is the reason for this?Experiment for locality and gradient validation (Subsection 5.1), and therefore Figure 3, was repeated and enhanced. To highlight the novelty and value of the research, validation was done on several surfaces with multiple repetitions. New graph uses boxplot figures, showing specific measurement positions. Figure also includes now a diagram of the experiment set-up. Finally, experiment discussion was improved to provide a detailed review of results and the novelty of the proposal.

The evaporation characteristic of pheromone proposed in this paper is an important manifestation that is different from previous studies. However, the proposal of new materials or substances would be often challenged by the environment and questioned by peers. Whether the author has considered the working conditions or environment of the material, such as durability, temperature adaptability and so on?A new paragraph was added to Subsection 4.1 "Composition of ferrofluid pheromone". It discusses characteristics of the materials such as human safeness, environmental hazards, temperature resistance. (please see paragraph 6 on section 4.1).

Regarding the composition and proportion of substance, it is recommended that authors add chart information, which will be easier to understand and read.Table 2 was added to Subsection 4.1 "Composition of ferrofluid pheromone". It includes ingredients and quantities for further understanding and experiment replication.


