Reviewer 2 Report
Firstly, I would like to thank the authors for bringining to my attention a number of recent references to the use of the Maximum likelihood method to reconstruct ancestral sequences. Also, for pointing out the statement by Caetano-Anolles etc al. in [14,15] in support of a proteins-first view - this is very clear!

However, I still have a number of problems with this manuscript, the main one being the re-use of results previously published as Figure 1 in [38] (Farias et al. 2014) without full acknowledgement of this fact.
1. It states in section 2.2 of the Experimental Section "tRNA and the PTC analysis", line 160: "We followed the same methodology by Farias et al., 2014 [38]". As these results (and their methods) have previously been published, this section is unnecessary and should not be included.
2. In section 3.2 "tRNAs and the origin of ribosomes", line 274 states "...we used the ancestral sequences of tRNAs and we aligned them with the PTC..." Instead, it should state, "We have previously published the results of an alignment of tRNA ancestral sequences with the PTC in [38]."
3. In the legend to Figure 4, line 284 states "Adapted from Farias et al., 2014 [37]". This reference is incorrect (it should be [38]), and should read something like "Figure taken from [38], used with permission" (if indeed permission has been obtained from the editors of the previous publication). The figure is actually exactly the same as that published in [38], except that the authors have changed the left-hand side annotation and some of the sequence numbering on the right-hand side. As the sequence alignments appear to be identical between the two figures, this raises the question of which numbering is the correct one.
As this section is is a review of previous work, it only needs to be referred to briefly (and possibly doesn't even require a separate section).

While I appreciate the authors have now included the reults of the Blast search used to derive Table 1 in the supplementary information section of the manuscript, I believe the importance of this data is such that the sequences should be shown as part of Table 1 within the body of the paper. If this makes the resultant table too large, I suggest reducing the number of protein 'hits' to those with the highest homology, either that or only showing a few of the representative proteins from the different processes (e.g. translation etc). There is plenty of room to do this, as the table as it currently stands is doubled up, having two columns for proteins and two for process, which is unnecessary. The table also needs to rank the proteins in order of homology. The remaining data not included in Table 1 can be shown in the supplementary information, if desired.
A minor point: in the legend to Table 1, lines 236-7, it states that this table "[indicates] which motifs had similarities with current proteins". Where in the table are these motifs shown?

I am not sure how the authors have compiled the Blast search results in the Supplementary Information section, as unfortunately I was unable to open the supplementary file as it is in a format that my computer does not recognize.

Finally, while I appreciate English is probably not the first language of the authors, I would strongly recommend employing a professional (service) to edit the manuscript for readibility, as there are still major difficulties with the wording and grammar.
